docs/content/user-guide/sales-channels/products.mdx, before:

---
sidebar_position: 3
sidebar_label: Manage Products
---

import UiIcon from '@site/src/components/UiIcon';

# Manage Products in Sales Channels

In this document, you’ll learn how to manage products in Sales Channels.

:::note

This guide covers managing products from the Sales Channels page. It’s also possible to manage the Sales Channels of products in the Products page.

:::

## Add Products to Sales Channels

To add products to a sales channel:

1. Go to Settings → Sales Channels
2. In the sales channels list on the left, choose the sales channel you want to add products to.
3. At the top right of the right section, click on the <UiIcon lightIcon="https://res.cloudinary.com/dza7lstvk/image/upload/v1667999308/Medusa%20Docs/UI%20Icons/1ordBC6_ssysel.png" darkIcon="https://res.cloudinary.com/dza7lstvk/image/upload/v1667999326/Medusa%20Docs/UI%20Icons/dSwWYBH_stzgoi.png" alt="three dots" /> icon.
4. Choose from the dropdown list “Add products”.
5. This opens a window to add products with filters and search functionalities similar to those of a product page. Select the products you want to add to the sales channel.
6. Click Save.

:::info

Products in the list that are grayed out are products that are already added to the sales channel.

:::

---

## Remove Product from Sales Channel

:::info

If you remove a product from a sales channel, it will still be available in your ecommerce store, just not in that sales channel. You can also add the product again to the sales channel.

:::

To remove a product from a sales channel:

1. Go to Settings → Sales Channels
2. In the sales channels list on the left, choose the sales channel you want to remove the product from.
3. Find the product you want to remove from the sales channel.
4. Click the <UiIcon lightIcon="https://res.cloudinary.com/dza7lstvk/image/upload/v1667999308/Medusa%20Docs/UI%20Icons/1ordBC6_ssysel.png" darkIcon="https://res.cloudinary.com/dza7lstvk/image/upload/v1667999326/Medusa%20Docs/UI%20Icons/dSwWYBH_stzgoi.png" alt="three dots" /> icon at the right side of the product’s row.
5. Choose from the dropdown list “Remove from the channel”.

Commit message:

docs: improved SEO of documentation (#3117)
* docs: added description to documentation pages

* docs: added more descriptions

* docs: finished improving meta description

* docs: added searchbox structured data

* docs: added breadcrumbs structured data

* docs: added how to structured data

* docs: improved 404 page

* docs: added how-to frontmatter option

docs/content/user-guide/sales-channels/products.mdx, after:

---
sidebar_position: 3
sidebar_label: Manage Products
description: 'This user guide explains how to manage products in sales channels on the Medusa admin.'
addHowToData: true
---

import UiIcon from '@site/src/components/UiIcon';

# Manage Products in Sales Channels

In this document, you’ll learn how to manage products in Sales Channels.

:::note

This guide covers managing products from the Sales Channels page. It’s also possible to manage the Sales Channels of products in the Products page.

:::

## Add Products to Sales Channels

To add products to a sales channel:

1. Go to Settings → Sales Channels
2. In the sales channels list on the left, choose the sales channel you want to add products to.
3. At the top right of the right section, click on the <UiIcon lightIcon="https://res.cloudinary.com/dza7lstvk/image/upload/v1667999308/Medusa%20Docs/UI%20Icons/1ordBC6_ssysel.png" darkIcon="https://res.cloudinary.com/dza7lstvk/image/upload/v1667999326/Medusa%20Docs/UI%20Icons/dSwWYBH_stzgoi.png" alt="three dots" /> icon.
4. Choose from the dropdown list “Add products”.
5. This opens a window to add products with filters and search functionalities similar to those of a product page. Select the products you want to add to the sales channel.
6. Click Save.

:::info

Products in the list that are grayed out are products that are already added to the sales channel.

:::

---

## Remove Product from Sales Channel

:::info

If you remove a product from a sales channel, it will still be available in your ecommerce store, just not in that sales channel. You can also add the product again to the sales channel.

:::

To remove a product from a sales channel:

1. Go to Settings → Sales Channels
2. In the sales channels list on the left, choose the sales channel you want to remove the product from.
3. Find the product you want to remove from the sales channel.
4. Click the <UiIcon lightIcon="https://res.cloudinary.com/dza7lstvk/image/upload/v1667999308/Medusa%20Docs/UI%20Icons/1ordBC6_ssysel.png" darkIcon="https://res.cloudinary.com/dza7lstvk/image/upload/v1667999326/Medusa%20Docs/UI%20Icons/dSwWYBH_stzgoi.png" alt="three dots" /> icon at the right side of the product’s row.
5. Choose from the dropdown list “Remove from the channel”.
