docs/content/user-guide/index.mdx, before:

---
sidebar_position: 1
sidebar_label: Introduction
---

import UiIcon from '@site/src/components/UiIcon';

# Welcome to Medusa’s User Guide

This user guide is intended to help users learn how they can use the Medusa admin to perform different operational and ecommerce tasks.

:::tip

If you don’t have a Medusa admin yet, you can check [the live demo](https://demo.medusajs.com/)!

:::

![Medusa Admin Overview](https://res.cloudinary.com/dza7lstvk/image/upload/v1673455647/Medusa%20Docs/User%20Guide/Screenshot_2023-01-11_at_6.46.06_PM_sirvel.png)

## Accessing the Medusa Admin

To access the admin panel of your ecommerce store, you must have a URL to the deployed website.

Once you open the URL, you’ll be asked to log in.

![Log In Page](https://res.cloudinary.com/dza7lstvk/image/upload/v1667923937/Medusa%20Docs/User%20Guide/cUYLszZ_bksyzs.png)

You must use your user’s email and password to log in. If you’re unsure what your email and password are, please contact the technical personnel that deployed your Medusa server and admin.

## Tour of Medusa Admin

After you log into your Medusa admin, you can see a sidebar menu, a search bar at the top, some icons at the top right, and in the middle the content of the page you’re currently on.

### Sidebar Menu

The sidebar menu includes the main navigation of your Medusa admin. You can use it to navigate between different pages, such as Products or Orders pages.

![Sidebar Menu](https://res.cloudinary.com/dza7lstvk/image/upload/v1673455798/Medusa%20Docs/User%20Guide/Screenshot_2023-01-11_at_6.49.48_PM_bj2bik.png)

### Search Bar

You’ll find at the top of the page a search bar. You can use this search bar to search orders, products, customers, and more information available in your Medusa Admin.

:::info Handy Shortcut

You can open the search window using the shortcuts:

Windows and Linux: <kbd>CTRL</kbd> + <kbd>K</kbd>

Mac OS: <kbd>⌘</kbd> + <kbd>K</kbd>

:::

![Search Window](https://res.cloudinary.com/dza7lstvk/image/upload/v1667923987/Medusa%20Docs/User%20Guide/z9a1NLK_ojyfn0.png)

You can select a result with your mouse. Alternatively, use the up and down arrows on your keyboard to navigate between the results, then choosing a result by hitting the Enter key.

### Check Notifications

At the top right you’ll find a <UiIcon lightIcon="https://res.cloudinary.com/dza7lstvk/image/upload/v1667999016/Medusa%20Docs/UI%20Icons/mWhpxNX_xteuos.png" darkIcon="https://res.cloudinary.com/dza7lstvk/image/upload/v1667999044/Medusa%20Docs/UI%20Icons/tE8LOXk_puyrib.png" alt="bell" /> icon. Clicking this icon opens a side window to view any notifications you might have. You can use this to view notifications such as completed product exports.

![Notifications Window](https://res.cloudinary.com/dza7lstvk/image/upload/v1667924034/Medusa%20Docs/User%20Guide/cTIu9yP_ubsbqx.png)

### Quick Actions

At the top left in the sidebar, you’ll find an avatar icon. By clicking this icon, you’ll see a dropdown. You can use this dropdown to access settings or sign out.

![Quick Actions Dropdown](https://res.cloudinary.com/dza7lstvk/image/upload/v1673455879/Medusa%20Docs/User%20Guide/Screenshot_2023-01-11_at_6.50.52_PM_tfduvw.png)

### Need Help

At the top right, you’ll find a <UiIcon lightIcon="https://res.cloudinary.com/dza7lstvk/image/upload/v1667999071/Medusa%20Docs/UI%20Icons/CrABja9_lwomxs.png" darkIcon="https://res.cloudinary.com/dza7lstvk/image/upload/v1667999095/Medusa%20Docs/UI%20Icons/cgeX2hP_b1vkwy.png" alt="question mark" /> icon. When you click on this icon, a form will pop up. You can use this form to send the Medusa team a message asking for help. The Medusa team usually responds in a few hours on business days.

![Get Help Form](https://res.cloudinary.com/dza7lstvk/image/upload/v1667924070/Medusa%20Docs/User%20Guide/8Fpa0gr_sjovih.png)

Commit message:

docs: improved SEO of documentation (#3117)
* docs: added description to documentation pages

* docs: added more descriptions

* docs: finished improving meta description

* docs: added searchbox structured data

* docs: added breadcrumbs structured data

* docs: added how to structured data

* docs: improved 404 page

* docs: added how-to frontmatter option

docs/content/user-guide/index.mdx, after:

---
sidebar_position: 1
sidebar_label: Introduction
description: 'The user guide explains how to use the Medusa Admin for non technical users. Learn through easy steps how to use the Medusa admin to perform different operations and ecommerce tasks.'
---

import UiIcon from '@site/src/components/UiIcon';

# Welcome to Medusa’s User Guide

This user guide is intended to help users learn how they can use the Medusa admin to perform different operational and ecommerce tasks.

:::tip

If you don’t have a Medusa admin yet, you can check [the live demo](https://demo.medusajs.com/)!

:::

![Medusa Admin Overview](https://res.cloudinary.com/dza7lstvk/image/upload/v1673455647/Medusa%20Docs/User%20Guide/Screenshot_2023-01-11_at_6.46.06_PM_sirvel.png)

## Accessing the Medusa Admin

To access the admin panel of your ecommerce store, you must have a URL to the deployed website.

Once you open the URL, you’ll be asked to log in.

![Log In Page](https://res.cloudinary.com/dza7lstvk/image/upload/v1667923937/Medusa%20Docs/User%20Guide/cUYLszZ_bksyzs.png)

You must use your user’s email and password to log in. If you’re unsure what your email and password are, please contact the technical personnel that deployed your Medusa server and admin.

## Tour of Medusa Admin

After you log into your Medusa admin, you can see a sidebar menu, a search bar at the top, some icons at the top right, and in the middle the content of the page you’re currently on.

### Sidebar Menu

The sidebar menu includes the main navigation of your Medusa admin. You can use it to navigate between different pages, such as Products or Orders pages.

![Sidebar Menu](https://res.cloudinary.com/dza7lstvk/image/upload/v1673455798/Medusa%20Docs/User%20Guide/Screenshot_2023-01-11_at_6.49.48_PM_bj2bik.png)

### Search Bar

You’ll find at the top of the page a search bar. You can use this search bar to search orders, products, customers, and more information available in your Medusa Admin.

:::info Handy Shortcut

You can open the search window using the shortcuts:

Windows and Linux: <kbd>CTRL</kbd> + <kbd>K</kbd>

Mac OS: <kbd>⌘</kbd> + <kbd>K</kbd>

:::

![Search Window](https://res.cloudinary.com/dza7lstvk/image/upload/v1667923987/Medusa%20Docs/User%20Guide/z9a1NLK_ojyfn0.png)

You can select a result with your mouse. Alternatively, use the up and down arrows on your keyboard to navigate between the results, then choosing a result by hitting the Enter key.

### Check Notifications

At the top right you’ll find a <UiIcon lightIcon="https://res.cloudinary.com/dza7lstvk/image/upload/v1667999016/Medusa%20Docs/UI%20Icons/mWhpxNX_xteuos.png" darkIcon="https://res.cloudinary.com/dza7lstvk/image/upload/v1667999044/Medusa%20Docs/UI%20Icons/tE8LOXk_puyrib.png" alt="bell" /> icon. Clicking this icon opens a side window to view any notifications you might have. You can use this to view notifications such as completed product exports.

![Notifications Window](https://res.cloudinary.com/dza7lstvk/image/upload/v1667924034/Medusa%20Docs/User%20Guide/cTIu9yP_ubsbqx.png)

### Quick Actions

At the top left in the sidebar, you’ll find an avatar icon. By clicking this icon, you’ll see a dropdown. You can use this dropdown to access settings or sign out.

![Quick Actions Dropdown](https://res.cloudinary.com/dza7lstvk/image/upload/v1673455879/Medusa%20Docs/User%20Guide/Screenshot_2023-01-11_at_6.50.52_PM_tfduvw.png)

### Need Help

At the top right, you’ll find a <UiIcon lightIcon="https://res.cloudinary.com/dza7lstvk/image/upload/v1667999071/Medusa%20Docs/UI%20Icons/CrABja9_lwomxs.png" darkIcon="https://res.cloudinary.com/dza7lstvk/image/upload/v1667999095/Medusa%20Docs/UI%20Icons/cgeX2hP_b1vkwy.png" alt="question mark" /> icon. When you click on this icon, a form will pop up. You can use this form to send the Medusa team a message asking for help. The Medusa team usually responds in a few hours on business days.

![Get Help Form](https://res.cloudinary.com/dza7lstvk/image/upload/v1667924070/Medusa%20Docs/User%20Guide/8Fpa0gr_sjovih.png)
