docs/content/advanced/backend/plugins/create.md, before:

# Create a Plugin

In this document, you’ll learn how to create a plugin and publish it. If you’re interested to learn more about what plugins are and where to find available official and community plugins, check out the [overview document](overview.md).

## Prerequisites

This guide uses the Medusa CLI throughout different steps. If you don’t have the Medusa CLI installed you can install it with the following command:

```bash npm2yarn
npm install @medusajs/medusa-cli -g
```

:::note

If you run into any errors while installing the CLI tool, check out the [troubleshooting guide](../../../troubleshooting/cli-installation-errors.mdx).

:::

## Initialize Project

The recommended way to create a plugin is using the Medusa CLI. Run the following command to create a new Medusa project:

```bash
medusa new medusa-plugin-custom
```

Where `medusa-plugin-custom` is the name of the plugin you’re creating. In Medusa, plugins are named based on their functionalities.

By convention, all plugin names start with `medusa` followed by a descriptive name of what the plugin does. For example, the Stripe plugin is named `medusa-payment-stripe`.

## Changes to package.json

### Rename Project Name

Update the `name` field in the `package.json` file to the name of your plugin. This should be the same name that you chose when running the `medusa new` command.

### Change Dependencies

A basic Medusa server installed with the `medusa new` command has dependencies similar to this:

```json
"dependencies": {
  "@medusajs/medusa": "^1.3.1",
  "@medusajs/medusa-cli": "^1.3.0",
  "medusa-fulfillment-manual": "^1.1.31",
  "medusa-interfaces": "^1.3.0",
  "medusa-payment-manual": "^1.0.16",
  "medusa-payment-stripe": "^1.1.38",
  "typeorm": "^0.2.36"
},
"devDependencies": {
  "@babel/cli": "^7.14.3",
  "@babel/core": "^7.14.3",
  "@babel/preset-typescript": "^7.14.5",
  "babel-preset-medusa-package": "^1.1.19"
}
```

For a plugin, a lot of these dependencies are not necessary or should be labeled as [peer dependencies](https://docs.npmjs.com/cli/v8/configuring-npm/package-json#peerdependencies). Therefore, it’s important to make changes to the dependencies of your plugin.

The recommended change is the following:

```json
"peerDependencies": {
  "@medusajs/medusa": "^1.3.1",
  "medusa-interfaces": "^1.3.0",
  "typeorm": "^0.2.36"
},
"devDependencies": {
  "@babel/cli": "^7.14.3",
  "@babel/core": "^7.14.3",
  "@babel/preset-typescript": "^7.14.5",
  "babel-preset-medusa-package": "^1.1.19",
}
```

The packages `@medusajs/medusa` and `medusa-interfaces` act as peer dependencies. They’ll be installed while you develop your package, and they are required when your plugin is installed in another NPM project.

You remove the packages `medusa-fulfillment-manual`, `medusa-payment-manual`, and `medusa-payment-stripe` as they are fulfillment and payment plugins necessary for a Medusa server, but not for a plugin.

Additionally, you remove `@medusajs/medusa-cli` as you don’t need to use the Medusa CLI while developing a plugin.

Once you’re done making these changes, re-run the install command to update your `node_modules` directory:

```bash npm2yarn
npm install
```

This section includes recommended changes to your `package.json`. You can skip any of these changes if you don’t find them necessary to your plugin.

### Recommended: Change scripts

:::caution

If you don't make changes to the `build` and `watch` commands, please be aware of the [expected plugin structure](#plugin-structure).

:::

A basic Medusa installation comes with the following scripts:

```json
"scripts": {
  "seed": "medusa seed -f ./data/seed.json",
  "build": "babel src --out-dir . --ignore **/__tests__ --extensions \".ts,.js\"",
  "start": "medusa develop"
}
```

The `seed` and `start` scripts aren't necessary for plugin development so you can remove them.

It’s also recommended to add the `watch` script that automatically compiles your files if they are changed:

```json
"watch": "babel -w src --out-dir . --ignore **/__tests__ --extensions \".ts,.js\""
```

This is helpful when testing the plugin.

:::note

Testing the plugin is covered in a [later section](#test-your-plugin).

:::

Another recommended script is the `prepare` script that builds your files under a “production” environment:

```json
"prepare": "cross-env NODE_ENV=production npm run build"
```

You would typically run this script before publishing your plugin.

This script requires installing the package `cross-env` as a development dependency:

```bash npm2yarn
npm install --save-dev cross-env
```

### Recommended: Change Basic Info

`package.json` holds information that further describes the package or the author that created the package. It is recommended to make the following changes:

- `description`: Change this to a sentence that describes what your plugin does.
- `author`: Your name and email.
- `repository`: The repository that holds your plugin’s codebase.
- `keywords`: This should hold the keywords that are related to your plugin. It’s recommended that all plugins use the keywords `medusa-plugin` or `medusa`.

## Develop your Plugin

Now, You can start developing your plugin. This can include adding services, endpoints, entities, or anything that's relevant to your plugin.

### Plugin Structure

While developing your plugin, you can create your TypeScript or JavaScript files under the `src` directory. This includes creating services, endpoints, migrations, etc...

However, before you test the changes on a Medusa server or publish your plugin, you must transpile your files, which moves them into the root of your plugin directory.

For example, if you have an endpoint in `src/api/index.js`, after running the `build` or `watch` commands [as defined earlier](#change-scripts), the file should be transpiled into `api/index.js` in your plugin's root.

If files and directories aren't placed in the root of your plugin, the Medusa server won't detect or load them.

An example of a plugin's directory before testing or publishing:

```
medusa-plugin-custom
|
|_ _ _ api
|      |
|      |_ _ _ index.js
|
|_ _ _ migrations
|      |
|      |_ _ _ <TIMESTAMP>_UserChanged.js
|
|_ _ _ src
|      |
|      |_ _ _ api
|      |     |
|      |     |_ _ _ index.ts
|      |
|      |_ _ _ migrations
|      |
|      |_ _ _ <TIMESTAMP>_UserChanged.ts
|
|_ _ _ package.json
//... other files
```

### Development Resources

This guide doesn't cover how to create different files and components. If you’re interested in learning how to do that, you can check out these guides:

- How to [create endpoints](../endpoints/add.md)
- How to [create a service](../services/create-service.md)
- How to [create a subscriber](../subscribers/create-subscriber.md)
- How to [create an entity](./../entities/index.md)
- How to [create a migration](../migrations/index.md)

## Add Plugin Configuration

Plugins often allow developers that will later use them to enter their own configuration. For example, you can allow developers to specify the API key of a service you’re integrating.

To pass a plugin its configurations on a Medusa server, you have to add it to the `plugins` array in `medusa-config.js`:

```jsx
const plugins = [
  //...
  {
    resolve: `medusa-plugin-custom`,
    options: {
      name: "My Store",
    },
  },
]
```

Then, you can have access to your plugin configuration in the constructor of services in your plugin:

```jsx
//In a service in your plugin
constructor({}, options) {
  //options contains plugin configurations
  this.name = options.name
}
```

You can also have access to the configurations in endpoints in your plugin:

```jsx
//in an endpoint in your plugin
export default (rootDirectory, options) => {
  //options contain the plugin configurations
  const router = Router()

  router.get("/hello-world", (req, res) => {
    res.json({
      message: `Welcome to ${options.name ? options.name : "Medusa"}!`,
    })
  })

  return router
}
```

:::tip

Make sure to include in the README of your plugin the configurations that can be passed to a plugin.

:::

## Test Your Plugin

While you develop your plugin, you’ll need to test it on an actual Medusa server. This can be done by using the [npm link](https://docs.npmjs.com/cli/v8/commands/npm-link) command.

In the root of your plugin directory, run the following command:

```bash npm2yarn
npm link
```

Then, change to the directory of the Medusa server you want to test the plugin on and run the following command:

```bash npm2yarn
npm link medusa-plugin-custom
```

Where `medusa-plugin-custom` is the package name of your plugin.

After linking to your plugin in a local Medusa server, either run the `build` or `watch` commands in your plugin directory:

```bash npm2yarn
# in the directory of the plugin
npm run watch
```

:::tip

If you’re running the `watch` command, you don’t need to run the `build` command every time you make a change to your plugin.

:::

Then, add your plugin into the array of plugins in `medusa-config.js`:

```jsx
const plugins = [
  //...
  {
    resolve: `medusa-plugin-custom`,
    //if your plugin has configurations
    options: {
      name: "My Store",
    },
  },
]
```

:::note

If your plugin has migrations, you must run them before you start the server. Check out the [Migrations guide](../migrations/overview.md#migrate-command) for more details.

:::

Finally, start your server and test your plugin’s functionalities:

```bash npm2yarn
npm run start
```

### Troubleshoot Errors

#### Error: The class must be a valid service implementation

Please make sure that your plugin is following the correct structure. If the error persists then please try the following fix:

```bash npm2yarn
cd <SERVER_PATH>/node_modules/medusa-interfaces
npm link
cd <PLUGIN_PATH>
rm -rf node_modules/medusa-interfaces
npm link medusa-interfaces
npm link
cd <SERVER_PATH>
npm link your-plugin
```

Where `<SERVER_PATH>` is the path to your Medusa server and `<PLUGIN_PATH>` is the path to your plugin.

This links the `medusa-interfaces` package from your `medusa-backend` to your plugin directory and then links your plugin to your `medusa-backend`.

#### APIs not loading

If the APIs you added to your Medussa server are not loading then please try the following steps:

```bash npm2yarn
cd <PLUGIN_PATH>
rm -rf node_modules
cd <SERVER_PATH>/node_modules/<PLUGIN_NAME>
npm install
cd <PLUGIN_PATH>
npm run build
cd <SERVER_PATH>
npm run start
```

Where `<SERVER_PATH>` is the path to your Medusa server, `<PLUGIN_PATH>` is the path to your plugin and `<PLUGIN_NAME>` is the name of your plugin as it is in your plugin `package.json` file.

:::note

It is safe to ignore any `cross-env: command not found` error you may receive.

:::

## NPM Ignore File

Not all files that you use while developing your plugin are necessary to be published.

For example, the files you add in the `src` directory are compiled to the root of the plugin directory before publishing. Then, when a developer installs your plugin, they’ll just be using the files in the root.

So, you can ignore files and directories like `src` from the final published NPM package.

To do that, create the file `.npmignore` with the following content:

```bash
/lib
node_modules
.DS_store
.env*
/*.js
!index.js
yarn.lock
src
.gitignore
.eslintrc
.babelrc
.prettierrc

#These are files that are included in a
#Medusa project and can be removed from a
#plugin project
medusa-config.js
Dockerfile
medusa-db.sql
develop.sh
```

## Publish Plugin

Once you’re done developing your plugin you can publish the package on NPM’s registry so that other developers can benefit from it and use it.

Before you publish a plugin, you must [create an account on NPM](https://www.npmjs.com/signup).

### Prepare Plugin

Before you publish or update your plugin, make sure to run the `prepare` command [defined earlier](#recommended-change-scripts):

```bash npm2yarn
npm run prepare
```

### Login

In your terminal, log in with your NPM account:

```bash
npm login
```

You’ll be asked to enter your NPM email and password.

### Publish Plugin Package

Once you’re logged in, you can publish your package with the following command:

```bash
npm publish
```

Your package is then published on NPM and everyone can use it and install it.

### Update Plugin

To update your plugin at a later point, you can run the following command to change the NPM version:

```bash
npm version <type>
```

Where `<type>` indicates the type of version update you’re publishing. For example, it can be `major` or `minor`.

You can see the [full list of types in NPM’s documentation](https://docs.npmjs.com/cli/v8/commands/npm-version).

Then, publish the new update:

```bash
npm publish
```

## Add Plugin to Medusa’s Repository

All officially-supported plugins are available in the [`packages` directory of the Medusa GitHub repository](https://github.com/medusajs/medusa/tree/master/packages).

If you’re interested in adding your plugin, you need to create a new pull request (PR) where you add your plugin inside the `packages` directory. Our team will then review your plugin, and if it’s approved the PR will be merged and your plugin will be available on Medusa’s repository.

:::note

Before contributing to the Medusa repository, please check out the [contribution guidelines](https://github.com/medusajs/medusa/blob/master/CONTRIBUTING.md).

:::

## Install a Plugin

To install any published plugin, you can run the following command on any Medusa server project:

```bash npm2yarn
npm install medusa-plugin-custom
```

## What’s Next

- Check out [available Services in Medusa](references/services/../../../../../references/services/classes/AuthService.md) that you can use in your plugin.
- Check out [available events](../subscribers/events-list.md) that you can listen to in Subscribers.
- Check out [available official plugins](https://github.com/medusajs/medusa/tree/master/packages).

Commit message:

docs: added core package to troubleshooting step (#2473)

docs/content/advanced/backend/plugins/create.md, after:

# Create a Plugin

In this document, you’ll learn how to create a plugin and publish it. If you’re interested to learn more about what plugins are and where to find available official and community plugins, check out the [overview document](overview.md).

## Prerequisites

This guide uses the Medusa CLI throughout different steps. If you don’t have the Medusa CLI installed you can install it with the following command:

```bash npm2yarn
npm install @medusajs/medusa-cli -g
```

:::note

If you run into any errors while installing the CLI tool, check out the [troubleshooting guide](../../../troubleshooting/cli-installation-errors.mdx).

:::

## Initialize Project

The recommended way to create a plugin is using the Medusa CLI. Run the following command to create a new Medusa project:

```bash
medusa new medusa-plugin-custom
```

Where `medusa-plugin-custom` is the name of the plugin you’re creating. In Medusa, plugins are named based on their functionalities.

By convention, all plugin names start with `medusa` followed by a descriptive name of what the plugin does. For example, the Stripe plugin is named `medusa-payment-stripe`.

## Changes to package.json

### Rename Project Name

Update the `name` field in the `package.json` file to the name of your plugin. This should be the same name that you chose when running the `medusa new` command.

### Change Dependencies

A basic Medusa server installed with the `medusa new` command has dependencies similar to this:

```json
"dependencies": {
  "@medusajs/medusa": "^1.3.1",
  "@medusajs/medusa-cli": "^1.3.0",
  "medusa-fulfillment-manual": "^1.1.31",
  "medusa-interfaces": "^1.3.0",
  "medusa-payment-manual": "^1.0.16",
  "medusa-payment-stripe": "^1.1.38",
  "typeorm": "^0.2.36"
},
"devDependencies": {
  "@babel/cli": "^7.14.3",
  "@babel/core": "^7.14.3",
  "@babel/preset-typescript": "^7.14.5",
  "babel-preset-medusa-package": "^1.1.19"
}
```

For a plugin, a lot of these dependencies are not necessary or should be labeled as [peer dependencies](https://docs.npmjs.com/cli/v8/configuring-npm/package-json#peerdependencies). Therefore, it’s important to make changes to the dependencies of your plugin.

The recommended change is the following:

```json
"peerDependencies": {
  "@medusajs/medusa": "^1.3.1",
  "medusa-interfaces": "^1.3.0",
  "typeorm": "^0.2.36"
},
"devDependencies": {
  "@babel/cli": "^7.14.3",
  "@babel/core": "^7.14.3",
  "@babel/preset-typescript": "^7.14.5",
  "babel-preset-medusa-package": "^1.1.19",
}
```

The packages `@medusajs/medusa` and `medusa-interfaces` act as peer dependencies. They’ll be installed while you develop your package, and they are required when your plugin is installed in another NPM project.

You remove the packages `medusa-fulfillment-manual`, `medusa-payment-manual`, and `medusa-payment-stripe` as they are fulfillment and payment plugins necessary for a Medusa server, but not for a plugin.

Additionally, you remove `@medusajs/medusa-cli` as you don’t need to use the Medusa CLI while developing a plugin.

Once you’re done making these changes, re-run the install command to update your `node_modules` directory:

```bash npm2yarn
npm install
```

This section includes recommended changes to your `package.json`. You can skip any of these changes if you don’t find them necessary to your plugin.

### Recommended: Change scripts

:::caution

If you don't make changes to the `build` and `watch` commands, please be aware of the [expected plugin structure](#plugin-structure).

:::

A basic Medusa installation comes with the following scripts:

```json
"scripts": {
  "seed": "medusa seed -f ./data/seed.json",
  "build": "babel src --out-dir . --ignore **/__tests__ --extensions \".ts,.js\"",
  "start": "medusa develop"
}
```

The `seed` and `start` scripts aren't necessary for plugin development so you can remove them.

It’s also recommended to add the `watch` script that automatically compiles your files if they are changed:

```json
"watch": "babel -w src --out-dir . --ignore **/__tests__ --extensions \".ts,.js\""
```

This is helpful when testing the plugin.

:::note

Testing the plugin is covered in a [later section](#test-your-plugin).

:::

Another recommended script is the `prepare` script that builds your files under a “production” environment:

```json
"prepare": "cross-env NODE_ENV=production npm run build"
```

You would typically run this script before publishing your plugin.

This script requires installing the package `cross-env` as a development dependency:

```bash npm2yarn
npm install --save-dev cross-env
```

### Recommended: Change Basic Info

`package.json` holds information that further describes the package or the author that created the package. It is recommended to make the following changes:

- `description`: Change this to a sentence that describes what your plugin does.
- `author`: Your name and email.
- `repository`: The repository that holds your plugin’s codebase.
- `keywords`: This should hold the keywords that are related to your plugin. It’s recommended that all plugins use the keywords `medusa-plugin` or `medusa`.

## Develop your Plugin

Now, You can start developing your plugin. This can include adding services, endpoints, entities, or anything that's relevant to your plugin.

### Plugin Structure

While developing your plugin, you can create your TypeScript or JavaScript files under the `src` directory. This includes creating services, endpoints, migrations, etc...

However, before you test the changes on a Medusa server or publish your plugin, you must transpile your files, which moves them into the root of your plugin directory.

For example, if you have an endpoint in `src/api/index.js`, after running the `build` or `watch` commands [as defined earlier](#change-scripts), the file should be transpiled into `api/index.js` in your plugin's root.

If files and directories aren't placed in the root of your plugin, the Medusa server won't detect or load them.

An example of a plugin's directory before testing or publishing:

```
medusa-plugin-custom
|
|_ _ _ api
|      |
|      |_ _ _ index.js
|
|_ _ _ migrations
|      |
|      |_ _ _ <TIMESTAMP>_UserChanged.js
|
|_ _ _ src
|      |
|      |_ _ _ api
|      |     |
|      |     |_ _ _ index.ts
|      |
|      |_ _ _ migrations
|      |
|      |_ _ _ <TIMESTAMP>_UserChanged.ts
|
|_ _ _ package.json
//... other files
```

### Development Resources

This guide doesn't cover how to create different files and components. If you’re interested in learning how to do that, you can check out these guides:

- How to [create endpoints](../endpoints/add.md)
- How to [create a service](../services/create-service.md)
- How to [create a subscriber](../subscribers/create-subscriber.md)
- How to [create an entity](./../entities/index.md)
- How to [create a migration](../migrations/index.md)

## Add Plugin Configuration

Plugins often allow developers that will later use them to enter their own configuration. For example, you can allow developers to specify the API key of a service you’re integrating.

To pass a plugin its configurations on a Medusa server, you have to add it to the `plugins` array in `medusa-config.js`:

```jsx
const plugins = [
  //...
  {
    resolve: `medusa-plugin-custom`,
    options: {
      name: "My Store",
    },
  },
]
```

Then, you can have access to your plugin configuration in the constructor of services in your plugin:

```jsx
//In a service in your plugin
constructor({}, options) {
  //options contains plugin configurations
  this.name = options.name
}
```

You can also have access to the configurations in endpoints in your plugin:

```jsx
//in an endpoint in your plugin
export default (rootDirectory, options) => {
  //options contain the plugin configurations
  const router = Router()

  router.get("/hello-world", (req, res) => {
    res.json({
      message: `Welcome to ${options.name ? options.name : "Medusa"}!`,
    })
  })

  return router
}
```

:::tip

Make sure to include in the README of your plugin the configurations that can be passed to a plugin.

:::

## Test Your Plugin

While you develop your plugin, you’ll need to test it on an actual Medusa server. This can be done by using the [npm link](https://docs.npmjs.com/cli/v8/commands/npm-link) command.

In the root of your plugin directory, run the following command:

```bash npm2yarn
npm link
```

Then, change to the directory of the Medusa server you want to test the plugin on and run the following command:

```bash npm2yarn
npm link medusa-plugin-custom
```

Where `medusa-plugin-custom` is the package name of your plugin.

After linking to your plugin in a local Medusa server, either run the `build` or `watch` commands in your plugin directory:

```bash npm2yarn
# in the directory of the plugin
npm run watch
```

:::tip

If you’re running the `watch` command, you don’t need to run the `build` command every time you make a change to your plugin.

:::

Then, add your plugin into the array of plugins in `medusa-config.js`:

```jsx
const plugins = [
  //...
  {
    resolve: `medusa-plugin-custom`,
    //if your plugin has configurations
    options: {
      name: "My Store",
    },
  },
]
```

:::note

If your plugin has migrations, you must run them before you start the server. Check out the [Migrations guide](../migrations/overview.md#migrate-command) for more details.

:::

Finally, start your server and test your plugin’s functionalities:

```bash npm2yarn
npm run start
```

### Troubleshoot Errors

#### Error: The class must be a valid service implementation

Please make sure that your plugin is following the correct structure. If the error persists then please try the following fix:

```bash npm2yarn
cd <SERVER_PATH>/node_modules/medusa-interfaces
npm link
cd <SERVER_PATH>/node_modules/@medusajs/medusa
npm link
cd <PLUGIN_PATH>
rm -rf node_modules/medusa-interfaces
rm -rf node_modules/@medusajs/medusa
npm link medusa-interfaces
npm link @medusajs/medusa
npm link
cd <SERVER_PATH>
npm link your-plugin
```

Where `<SERVER_PATH>` is the path to your Medusa server and `<PLUGIN_PATH>` is the path to your plugin.

This links the `medusa-interfaces` and `@medusajs/medusa` packages from your `medusa-backend` to your plugin directory and then links your plugin to your `medusa-backend`.

#### APIs not loading

If the APIs you added to your Medussa server are not loading then please try the following steps:

```bash npm2yarn
cd <PLUGIN_PATH>
rm -rf node_modules
cd <SERVER_PATH>/node_modules/<PLUGIN_NAME>
npm install
cd <PLUGIN_PATH>
npm run build
cd <SERVER_PATH>
npm run start
```

Where `<SERVER_PATH>` is the path to your Medusa server, `<PLUGIN_PATH>` is the path to your plugin and `<PLUGIN_NAME>` is the name of your plugin as it is in your plugin `package.json` file.

:::note

It is safe to ignore any `cross-env: command not found` error you may receive.

:::

## NPM Ignore File

Not all files that you use while developing your plugin are necessary to be published.

For example, the files you add in the `src` directory are compiled to the root of the plugin directory before publishing. Then, when a developer installs your plugin, they’ll just be using the files in the root.

So, you can ignore files and directories like `src` from the final published NPM package.

To do that, create the file `.npmignore` with the following content:

```bash
/lib
node_modules
.DS_store
.env*
/*.js
!index.js
yarn.lock
src
.gitignore
.eslintrc
.babelrc
.prettierrc

#These are files that are included in a
#Medusa project and can be removed from a
#plugin project
medusa-config.js
Dockerfile
medusa-db.sql
develop.sh
```

## Publish Plugin

Once you’re done developing your plugin you can publish the package on NPM’s registry so that other developers can benefit from it and use it.

Before you publish a plugin, you must [create an account on NPM](https://www.npmjs.com/signup).

### Prepare Plugin

Before you publish or update your plugin, make sure to run the `prepare` command [defined earlier](#recommended-change-scripts):

```bash npm2yarn
npm run prepare
```

### Login

In your terminal, log in with your NPM account:

```bash
npm login
```

You’ll be asked to enter your NPM email and password.

### Publish Plugin Package

Once you’re logged in, you can publish your package with the following command:

```bash
npm publish
```

Your package is then published on NPM and everyone can use it and install it.

### Update Plugin

To update your plugin at a later point, you can run the following command to change the NPM version:

```bash
npm version <type>
```

Where `<type>` indicates the type of version update you’re publishing. For example, it can be `major` or `minor`.

You can see the [full list of types in NPM’s documentation](https://docs.npmjs.com/cli/v8/commands/npm-version).

Then, publish the new update:

```bash
npm publish
```

## Add Plugin to Medusa’s Repository

All officially-supported plugins are available in the [`packages` directory of the Medusa GitHub repository](https://github.com/medusajs/medusa/tree/master/packages).

If you’re interested in adding your plugin, you need to create a new pull request (PR) where you add your plugin inside the `packages` directory. Our team will then review your plugin, and if it’s approved the PR will be merged and your plugin will be available on Medusa’s repository.

:::note

Before contributing to the Medusa repository, please check out the [contribution guidelines](https://github.com/medusajs/medusa/blob/master/CONTRIBUTING.md).

:::

## Install a Plugin

To install any published plugin, you can run the following command on any Medusa server project:

```bash npm2yarn
npm install medusa-plugin-custom
```

## What’s Next

- Check out [available Services in Medusa](references/services/../../../../../references/services/classes/AuthService.md) that you can use in your plugin.
- Check out [available events](../subscribers/events-list.md) that you can listen to in Subscribers.
- Check out [available official plugins](https://github.com/medusajs/medusa/tree/master/packages).
