docs/content/modules/orders/swaps.md, before:

---
description: "Learn what swaps are, swap processes implemented in the Medusa backend, and a swap’s relation to other entities"
---

# Swaps Architecture Overview

In this document, you’ll learn what swaps are, swap processes implemented in the Medusa backend, and a swap’s relation to other entities.

## Overview

After an order is created and fulfilled, the customer may need to replace an item they received with another. They can then create a swap, requesting to return an item they have in place for a new item. The swap, similar to an order, can then be paid, fulfilled, and more.

The Medusa core provides the necessary implementation and functionalities that allow you to integrate swaps in your store and automate the Return Merchandise Authorization (RMA) flow.

---

## Swap Entity Overview

Some of the attributes of the `Swap` entity include:

- `fulfillment_status`: a string indicating the status of the swap’s fulfillment. Its possible values indicated by the [SwapFulfillmentStatus enum](../../references/entities/enums/SwapFulfillmentStatus.md) can determine whether all items have been fulfilled, shipped, or canceled.
- `payment_status`: a string indicating the status of the swap’s payment. Its possible values indicated by the [SwapPaymentStatus enum](../../references/entities/enums/SwapFulfillmentStatus.md) can determine whether the payment of the swap has been captured or refunded.
- `difference_due`: An integer indicating the difference amount between the order’s original total and the new total imposed by the swap.
  - If the value of `difference_due` is negative, that means the customer should be refunded.
  - If it’s positive, that means the customer must authorize additional payment.
  - If it’s zero, then no refund or additional payment is required.
- `confirmed_at`: A date indicating when the swap was confirmed by the customer.
- `canceled_at`: A date indicating when the swap was canceled.
- `no_notification`: a boolean value indicating whether the customer should receive notifications when the order is updated.
- `allow_backorder`: a boolean value indicating whether a swap can be created and completed with items that are out of stock.

There are other important attributes discussed in later sections. Check out the full [Swap entity in the entities reference](../../references/entities/classes/Swap.md).

---

## How are Swaps Created

In Medusa, Swaps are created by the customer through the storefront. This ensures an automated Return Merchandise Authorization (RMA) flow. This section explains the ideal and recommended process, but you’re free in how you choose to implement Swaps creation flow.

### Idempotency Key

An Idempotency Key is a unique key associated with a swap. It is generated when the swap creation process is started. The idempotency key is stored in the `Swap` entity under the attribute `idempotency_key`.

That Idempotency Key is then set in the header under the `Idempotency-Key` response header field along with the header field `Access-Control-Expose-Headers` set to `Idempotency-Key`.

The backend wraps essential parts of the swap creation process in its own step and stores the current step (known as recovery point) of the process with its associated Idempotency Key.

Then, if the request is interrupted for any reason or an error occurs, the client can retry creating the swap using the Idempotency Key, and the flow will continue from the last stored step.

Keep in mind that the idempotency key stored in the swap is only used when creating the swap. All operations related to the swap’s cart and its completion use the [cart’s idempotency key](../carts-and-checkout/cart.md#idempotency-key).

### Swap Creation Process

The customer starts by creating their swap, which can be done through the Create Swap endpoint. In this endpoint, the following steps are implemented:

![Swap Creation Flowchart](https://res.cloudinary.com/dza7lstvk/image/upload/v1681983755/Medusa%20Docs/Diagrams/swap-process_kylqq0.jpg)

1. The swap’s creation is initiated with the `SwapService`'s [create method](../../references/services/classes/SwapService.md#create):
    1. The order is first validated to see if a swap can be created. This includes checking the `payment_status` of the order to ensure the payment has already been captured, and the `fulfillment_status` of the order to ensure the status isn’t `not_fulfilled`. If any of these conditions aren’t met, the process is terminated with an error.
    2. The items that the customer chose to return are then validated. If any item has been previously canceled, meaning that its order, swap, or claim have been previously canceled, the process is terminated with an error.
    3. If all the conditions above are met, the swap is then created and associated with the order using the `order_id` attribute.
    4. A return is created and linked to the swap. The return’s items are set to the items that the customer chose to return.
2. After the swap has been created, a cart is then created for the swap using the `SwapService`'s [createCart method](../../references/services/classes/SwapService.md#createcart). The cart is used to finalize the process of the swap creation process, but more on that later. The swap is associated with the cart using the `cart_id` attribute.
3. The return associated with the swap is marked as fulfilled, as this is taken care of by the customer.

After the swap has been created, the customer should undergo a swap-completion process similar to the checkout process where they provide shipping and billing addresses, choose shipping and payment methods, authorize any additional payment required, then finally completing the cart.

This is all made possible since the swap is linked to a cart, so the same checkout flow can be implemented in a swap context. The cart completion strategy also handles the completion differently for swaps, as explained [here](../carts-and-checkout/cart.md#cart-completion).

---

## Handling Swap Payment

After the swap has been created and completed by the customer, the merchant can then process the payment of the swap. This includes either refunding or capturing an additional payment, which is decided by the value of the `difference_due` attribute as explained in the [Swap Entity section](#swap-entity-overview).

The processing of the swap’s payment can be done either using the `SwapService`'s [processDifference method](../../references/services/classes/SwapService.md#processdifference), or using the [Process Swap Payment endpoint](/api/admin#tag/Orders/operation/PostOrdersOrderSwapsSwapProcessPayment).

If the swap requires any additional payment, the customer is expected to have authorized the payment during the [swap and cart completion flow explained earlier](#how-are-swaps-created). The merchant can then capture the payment and the `payment_status` of the swap is set to `captured`.

If the swap requires a refund, the merchant can refund the payment to the customer and the `payment_status` of the swap is set to `difference_refunded`. The same status is used if no refund or additional payment are required.

If the capturing or refunding of the payment causes any errors, the payment status is changed to `requires_action`.

A swap’s payment can be accessed by expanding the `payment` relation and accessing `swap.payment`. A payment is represented by the `Payment` entity.

---

## Handling Swap Fulfillment

After the swap has been created and completed by the customer, the merchant should handle the fulfillment of the new items.

Although you have freedom in how you implement the process, the recommended process provided in the Medusa backend is as follows:

![Swap Fulfillment Flowchart](https://res.cloudinary.com/dza7lstvk/image/upload/v1681984933/Medusa%20Docs/Diagrams/swap-fulfillment-process_xfurko.jpg)

1. The fulfillment is created either using the `SwapService`'s [createFulfillment method](../../references/services/classes/SwapService.md#createfulfillment) or using the [Create a Swap Fulfillment endpoint](/api/admin#tag/Orders/operation/PostOrdersOrderSwapsSwapFulfillments). This would set the `fulfillment_status` of the swap either to `fulfilled` if all items have been fulfilled, or `partially_fulfilled` if only some items were fulfilled.
2. The shipment can then be created using the `SwapService`'s [createShipment method](../../references/services/classes/SwapService.md#createshipment) or using the [Create Swap Shipment endpoint](/api/admin#tag/Orders/operation/PostOrdersOrderSwapsSwapShipments). This would set the `fulfillment_status` of the swap either to `shipped` if all items have been shipped, or `partially_shipped` if only some items were shipped.
3. Alternatively, a fulfillment can be canceled after it has been created using the `SwapService`'s [cancelFulfillment method](../../references/services/classes/SwapService.md#cancelfulfillment) or using the [Cancel Swap’s Fulfillment endpoint](/api/admin#tag/Orders/operation/PostOrdersSwapFulfillmentsCancel). This would set the `fulfillment_status` of the swap to `canceled`.

A swap’s fulfillments can be accessed by expanding the `fulfillments` relation and accessing `swap.fulfillments`. A fulfillment is represented by the `Fulfillment` entity.

---

## Canceling a Swap

A swap can be canceled by the merchant if necessary. It can be done either through the `SwapService`'s [cancel method](../../references/services/classes/SwapService.md#cancel) or the [Cancel Swap endpoint](/api/admin#tag/Orders/operation/PostOrdersSwapCancel).

A swap can’t be canceled if:

- The payment has been refunded (the `payment_status` is either `difference_refunded`, `partially_refunded`, or `refunded`).
- Its fulfillment isn’t canceled. You’ll have to cancel the swap’s fulfillment as explained in the [Handling Swap Fulfillment section](#handling-swap-fulfillment).
- Its return isn’t canceled. You’ll have to cancel the return associated with the swap first before canceling the swap.

---

## RMA Automation with Swaps

Giving the client control over the creation of the swap and handling the returns allows businesses to automate their RMA flow.

The client, typically the customer, creates the swap, authorizes any additional payment required, and handles returning the item. The admin, typically the merchant, can view the created swap, process the payment, and fulfill and ship the additional items.

![RMA Automation with Swaps Flowchart](https://res.cloudinary.com/dza7lstvk/image/upload/v1681987907/Medusa%20Docs/Diagrams/rma-automation-swap_c9wwaj.jpg)

This removes any friction and support required between the client and the admin.

---

## Relation to Other Entities

This section includes relations that weren’t mentioned in other sections.

### Order

The swap must be associated with the [order](./orders.md) it’s created for. An order is represented by the `Order` entity.

You can access the order’s ID using the `order_id` attribute. You can also access the order by expanding the `order` relation and accessing `swap.order`.

### Cart

The swap must be associated with a [cart](../carts-and-checkout/cart.md). A cart is represented by the `Cart` entity.

You can access the cart’s ID using the `cart_id` attribute. You can also access the cart by expanding the `cart` relation and accessing `swap.cart`.

### LineItem

The swap is associated with new items that should replace the customer’s items. These items are represented by the `LineItem` entity.

You can access the swap’s new items by expanding the `additional_items` relation and accessing `swap.additional_items`.

### Return

The swap is associated with a return that is created when the swap is created. A return is represented by the `Return` entity.

You can access the swap’s return by expanding the `return_order` relation and accessing `swap.return_order`.

### Address

The swap can be associated with shipping and billing addresses. Both shipping and billing addresses are represented by the `Address` entity.

You can access the swap’s billing address ID using the `billing_address_id` property. You can also access the billing address by expanding the `billing_address` relation and accessing `swap.billing_address`.

You can access the swap’s shipping address ID using the `shipping_address_id` property. You can also access the shipping address by expanding the `shipping_address` relation and accessing `swap.shipping_address`.

---

## See Also

- [Order Architecture Overview](./orders.md)

Commit message:

docs: added returns conceptual guide (#3889)

docs/content/modules/orders/swaps.md, after:

---
description: "Learn what swaps are, swap processes implemented in the Medusa backend, and a swap’s relation to other entities"
---

# Swaps Architecture Overview

In this document, you’ll learn what swaps are, swap processes implemented in the Medusa backend, and a swap’s relation to other entities.

## Overview

After an order is created and fulfilled, the customer may need to replace an item they received with another. They can then create a swap, requesting to return an item they have in place for a new item. The swap, similar to an order, can then be paid, fulfilled, and more.

The Medusa core provides the necessary implementation and functionalities that allow you to integrate swaps in your store and automate the Return Merchandise Authorization (RMA) flow.

---

## Swap Entity Overview

Some of the attributes of the `Swap` entity include:

- `fulfillment_status`: a string indicating the status of the swap’s fulfillment. Its possible values indicated by the [SwapFulfillmentStatus enum](../../references/entities/enums/SwapFulfillmentStatus.md) can determine whether all items have been fulfilled, shipped, or canceled.
- `payment_status`: a string indicating the status of the swap’s payment. Its possible values indicated by the [SwapPaymentStatus enum](../../references/entities/enums/SwapFulfillmentStatus.md) can determine whether the payment of the swap has been captured or refunded.
- `difference_due`: An integer indicating the difference amount between the order’s original total and the new total imposed by the swap.
  - If the value of `difference_due` is negative, that means the customer should be refunded.
  - If it’s positive, that means the customer must authorize additional payment.
  - If it’s zero, then no refund or additional payment is required.
- `confirmed_at`: A date indicating when the swap was confirmed by the customer.
- `canceled_at`: A date indicating when the swap was canceled.
- `no_notification`: a boolean value indicating whether the customer should receive notifications when the order is updated.
- `allow_backorder`: a boolean value indicating whether a swap can be created and completed with items that are out of stock.

There are other important attributes discussed in later sections. Check out the full [Swap entity in the entities reference](../../references/entities/classes/Swap.md).

---

## How are Swaps Created

In Medusa, Swaps are created by the customer through the storefront. This ensures an automated Return Merchandise Authorization (RMA) flow. This section explains the ideal and recommended process, but you’re free in how you choose to implement Swaps creation flow.

### Idempotency Key

An Idempotency Key is a unique key associated with a swap. It is generated when the swap creation process is started. The idempotency key is stored in the `Swap` entity under the attribute `idempotency_key`.

That Idempotency Key is then set in the header under the `Idempotency-Key` response header field along with the header field `Access-Control-Expose-Headers` set to `Idempotency-Key`.

The backend wraps essential parts of the swap creation process in its own step and stores the current step (known as recovery point) of the process with its associated Idempotency Key.

Then, if the request is interrupted for any reason or an error occurs, the client can retry creating the swap using the Idempotency Key, and the flow will continue from the last stored step.

Keep in mind that the idempotency key stored in the swap is only used when creating the swap. All operations related to the swap’s cart and its completion use the [cart’s idempotency key](../carts-and-checkout/cart.md#idempotency-key).

### Swap Creation Process

The customer starts by creating their swap, which can be done through the Create Swap endpoint. In this endpoint, the following steps are implemented:

![Swap Creation Flowchart](https://res.cloudinary.com/dza7lstvk/image/upload/v1681983755/Medusa%20Docs/Diagrams/swap-process_kylqq0.jpg)

1. The swap’s creation is initiated with the `SwapService`'s [create method](../../references/services/classes/SwapService.md#create):
    1. The order is first validated to see if a swap can be created. This includes checking the `payment_status` of the order to ensure the payment has already been captured, and the `fulfillment_status` of the order to ensure the status isn’t `not_fulfilled`. If any of these conditions aren’t met, the process is terminated with an error.
    2. The items that the customer chose to return are then validated. If any item has been previously canceled, meaning that its order, swap, or claim have been previously canceled, the process is terminated with an error.
    3. If all the conditions above are met, the swap is then created and associated with the order using the `order_id` attribute.
    4. A return is created and linked to the swap. The return’s items are set to the items that the customer chose to return.
2. After the swap has been created, a cart is then created for the swap using the `SwapService`'s [createCart method](../../references/services/classes/SwapService.md#createcart). The cart is used to finalize the process of the swap creation process, but more on that later. The swap is associated with the cart using the `cart_id` attribute.
3. The return associated with the swap is marked as fulfilled, as this is taken care of by the customer.

After the swap has been created, the customer should undergo a swap-completion process similar to the checkout process where they provide shipping and billing addresses, choose shipping and payment methods, authorize any additional payment required, then finally completing the cart.

This is all made possible since the swap is linked to a cart, so the same checkout flow can be implemented in a swap context. The cart completion strategy also handles the completion differently for swaps, as explained [here](../carts-and-checkout/cart.md#cart-completion).

---

## Handling Swap Payment

After the swap has been created and completed by the customer, the merchant can then process the payment of the swap. This includes either refunding or capturing an additional payment, which is decided by the value of the `difference_due` attribute as explained in the [Swap Entity section](#swap-entity-overview).

The processing of the swap’s payment can be done either using the `SwapService`'s [processDifference method](../../references/services/classes/SwapService.md#processdifference), or using the [Process Swap Payment endpoint](/api/admin#tag/Orders/operation/PostOrdersOrderSwapsSwapProcessPayment).

If the swap requires any additional payment, the customer is expected to have authorized the payment during the [swap and cart completion flow explained earlier](#how-are-swaps-created). The merchant can then capture the payment and the `payment_status` of the swap is set to `captured`.

If the swap requires a refund, the merchant can refund the payment to the customer and the `payment_status` of the swap is set to `difference_refunded`. The same status is used if no refund or additional payment are required.

If the capturing or refunding of the payment causes any errors, the payment status is changed to `requires_action`.

A swap’s payment can be accessed by expanding the `payment` relation and accessing `swap.payment`. A payment is represented by the `Payment` entity.

---

## Handling Swap Fulfillment

After the swap has been created and completed by the customer, the merchant should handle the fulfillment of the new items.

Although you have freedom in how you implement the process, the recommended process provided in the Medusa backend is as follows:

![Swap Fulfillment Flowchart](https://res.cloudinary.com/dza7lstvk/image/upload/v1681984933/Medusa%20Docs/Diagrams/swap-fulfillment-process_xfurko.jpg)

1. The fulfillment is created either using the `SwapService`'s [createFulfillment method](../../references/services/classes/SwapService.md#createfulfillment) or using the [Create a Swap Fulfillment endpoint](/api/admin#tag/Orders/operation/PostOrdersOrderSwapsSwapFulfillments). This would set the `fulfillment_status` of the swap either to `fulfilled` if all items have been fulfilled, or `partially_fulfilled` if only some items were fulfilled.
2. The shipment can then be created using the `SwapService`'s [createShipment method](../../references/services/classes/SwapService.md#createshipment) or using the [Create Swap Shipment endpoint](/api/admin#tag/Orders/operation/PostOrdersOrderSwapsSwapShipments). This would set the `fulfillment_status` of the swap either to `shipped` if all items have been shipped, or `partially_shipped` if only some items were shipped.
3. Alternatively, a fulfillment can be canceled after it has been created using the `SwapService`'s [cancelFulfillment method](../../references/services/classes/SwapService.md#cancelfulfillment) or using the [Cancel Swap’s Fulfillment endpoint](/api/admin#tag/Orders/operation/PostOrdersSwapFulfillmentsCancel). This would set the `fulfillment_status` of the swap to `canceled`.

A swap’s fulfillments can be accessed by expanding the `fulfillments` relation and accessing `swap.fulfillments`. A fulfillment is represented by the `Fulfillment` entity.

---

## Handling a Swap's Return

A swap's return can be marked as received, which would adjust the inventory and change the status of the return. This process is explained within the [Returns documentation](./returns.md#mark-return-as-received-process).

---

## Canceling a Swap

A swap can be canceled by the merchant if necessary. It can be done either through the `SwapService`'s [cancel method](../../references/services/classes/SwapService.md#cancel) or the [Cancel Swap endpoint](/api/admin#tag/Orders/operation/PostOrdersSwapCancel).

A swap can’t be canceled if:

- The payment has been refunded (the `payment_status` is either `difference_refunded`, `partially_refunded`, or `refunded`).
- Its fulfillment isn’t canceled. You’ll have to cancel the swap’s fulfillment as explained in the [Handling Swap Fulfillment section](#handling-swap-fulfillment).
- Its return isn’t canceled. You’ll have to [cancel the return](./returns.md#cancel-a-return) associated with the swap first before canceling the swap.

---

## RMA Automation with Swaps

Giving the client control over the creation of the swap and handling the returns allows businesses to automate their RMA flow.

The client, typically the customer, creates the swap, authorizes any additional payment required, and handles returning the item. The admin, typically the merchant, can view the created swap, process the payment, and fulfill and ship the additional items.

![RMA Automation with Swaps Flowchart](https://res.cloudinary.com/dza7lstvk/image/upload/v1681987907/Medusa%20Docs/Diagrams/rma-automation-swap_c9wwaj.jpg)

This removes any friction and support required between the client and the admin.

---

## Relation to Other Entities

This section includes relations that weren’t mentioned in other sections.

### Order

The swap must be associated with the [order](./orders.md) it’s created for. An order is represented by the `Order` entity.

You can access the order’s ID using the `order_id` attribute. You can also access the order by expanding the `order` relation and accessing `swap.order`.

### Cart

The swap must be associated with a [cart](../carts-and-checkout/cart.md). A cart is represented by the `Cart` entity.

You can access the cart’s ID using the `cart_id` attribute. You can also access the cart by expanding the `cart` relation and accessing `swap.cart`.

### LineItem

The swap is associated with new items that should replace the customer’s items. These items are represented by the `LineItem` entity.

You can access the swap’s new items by expanding the `additional_items` relation and accessing `swap.additional_items`.

### Return

The swap is associated with a [return](./returns.md) that is created when the swap is created. A return is represented by the `Return` entity.

You can access the swap’s return by expanding the `return_order` relation and accessing `swap.return_order`.

### Address

The swap can be associated with shipping and billing addresses. Both shipping and billing addresses are represented by the `Address` entity.

You can access the swap’s billing address ID using the `billing_address_id` property. You can also access the billing address by expanding the `billing_address` relation and accessing `swap.billing_address`.

You can access the swap’s shipping address ID using the `shipping_address_id` property. You can also access the shipping address by expanding the `shipping_address` relation and accessing `swap.shipping_address`.

---

## See Also

- [Order Architecture Overview](./orders.md)
