docs/content/development/backend/prepare-environment.mdx, before:

---
description: 'Learn how to prepare your development environment while using Medusa. This guide includes how to install Node.js, Git, Medusa CLI tool, and PostgreSQL.'
---

import Tabs from '@theme/Tabs';
import TabItem from '@theme/TabItem';

# Prepare Development Environment

This document will guide you to prepare your development environment to efficiently and properly use Medusa.

## Required Tools

To get your development environment ready you need to install the following tools:

### Node.js

Node.js is the environment that makes it possible for Medusa to run, so you must install Node.js on your computer to start Medusa development.

:::caution

Medusa supports v16 or greater of Node.js. You can check your Node.js version using the following command:

```bash noReport
node -v
```

:::

<Tabs groupId="operating-systems">
<TabItem value="windows" label="Windows" default>

You can install the executable directly from [the Node.js website](https://nodejs.org/en/#home-downloadhead).

For other approaches, you can check out [Node.js’s guide](https://nodejs.org/en/download/package-manager/#windows-1).

</TabItem>
<TabItem value="linux" label="Linux">

You can use the following commands to install Node.js on Ubuntu:

```bash
#Ubuntu
sudo apt update
sudo apt install nodejs
```

For other Linux distributions, you can check out [Node.js’s guide](https://nodejs.org/en/download/package-manager/).

</TabItem>
<TabItem value="macos" label="macOS">

You can use the following commands to install Node.js on macOS:

<Tabs groupId="homebrew" isCodeTabs={true}>
<TabItem value="homebrew" label="Homebrew">

```bash
brew install node
```

</TabItem>
<TabItem value="no-homebrew" label="Without Homebrew">

```bash
curl \
 "https://nodejs.org/dist/latest/node-${VERSION:-$(wget -qO- \
  https://nodejs.org/dist/latest/ | sed -nE \ 
  's|.*>node-(.*)\.pkg</a>.*|\1|p')}.pkg" \
  > "$HOME/Downloads/node-latest.pkg" && 
  sudo installer -store -pkg "$HOME/Downloads/node-latest.pkg" -target "/"
```

</TabItem>
</Tabs>

For other approaches, you can check out [Node.js’s guide](https://nodejs.org/en/download/package-manager/#macos).

:::tip

Make sure that you have Xcode command line tools installed; if not,  run the following command to install it: `xcode-select --install`

:::
</TabItem>
</Tabs>

### Git

Medusa uses Git behind the scenes when you create a new project so you'll have to install it on your computer to get started.

<Tabs groupId="operating-systems">
<TabItem value="windows" label="Windows" default>

To install Git on Windows, you need to [download the installable package](https://git-scm.com/download/win).

</TabItem>
<TabItem value="linux" label="Linux">

For Debian/Ubuntu, you can use the following command:

```bash
apt-get install git
```

As for other Linux distributions, please check [git’s guide](https://git-scm.com/download/linux).

</TabItem>
<TabItem value="macos" label="macOS">

You should already have Git installed as part of the Xcode command-line tools.

However, if for any reason you need to install it manually, you can install it with Homebrew:

```bash
brew install git
```

You can also check out [git’s guide](https://git-scm.com/download/mac) for more installation options.

</TabItem>
</Tabs>

### Medusa CLI

The final installation required to get started with Medusa is the Medusa CLI. It is an NPM package you can install globally on your machine to get instant access to commands that help you manage and run your Medusa project.

You can install Medusa’s CLI with the following command:

```bash npm2yarn
npm install @medusajs/medusa-cli -g
```

You can check that Medusa was installed by running the following command:

```bash noReport
medusa -v
```

:::note

If you run into any errors while installing the CLI tool, check out the [troubleshooting guide](../../troubleshooting/cli-installation-errors.mdx).

:::

---

## Install Medusa Backend

If you're not interested in installing the optional tools and want to get started with Medusa quickly, check out the [Medusa Backend Quickstart](./install.mdx).

---

## Optional Tools

These tools are not required to have to run a Medusa backend, but it's highly recommended that you have them installed.

### PostgreSQL

Although you can use an SQLite database with Medusa which would require no necessary database installations, it is recommended to use a PostgreSQL database for your backend.

:::tip

After installing PostgreSQL, check out the [Configure your Backend documentation](./configurations.md#postgresql-configurations) to learn how to configure PostgreSQL to work with Medusa.

:::

<Tabs groupId="operating-systems">
<TabItem value="windows" label="Windows">

You can [download the PostgreSQL Windows installer](https://www.postgresql.org/download/windows/) from their website.

</TabItem>
<TabItem value="linux" label="Linux">

If you’re using Ubuntu, you can use the following commands to download and install PostgreSQL:

```bash
sudo sh -c \
  'echo "deb http://apt.postgresql.org/pub/repos/apt $(lsb_release -cs)-pgdg main" > /etc/apt/sources.list.d/pgdg.list'
wget --quiet -O - \
  https://www.postgresql.org/media/keys/ACCC4CF8.asc | sudo apt-key add -
sudo apt-get update
sudo apt-get -y install postgresql
```

For other distributions, you can check out [PostgreSQL’s website for more guides](https://www.postgresql.org/download/linux/).

</TabItem>
<TabItem value="macos" label="macOS">

You can download PostgreSQL on your macOS using [the installer on their website](https://www.postgresql.org/download/macosx/).

</TabItem>
</Tabs>

---

## See Also

- [Install Medusa backend](./install.mdx)
- [Configure the Medusa backend](./configurations.md)

Commit message:

docs: remove mentions of SQLite (#4045)
* docs: removed mentions of sqlite

* removed mentions of the seed option

* remove sidebar link

* Made PostgreSQL a required tool

* fixed heading

docs/content/development/backend/prepare-environment.mdx, after:

---
description: 'Learn how to prepare your development environment while using Medusa. This guide includes how to install Node.js, Git, Medusa CLI tool, and PostgreSQL.'
---

import Tabs from '@theme/Tabs';
import TabItem from '@theme/TabItem';

# Prepare Development Environment

This document will guide you to prepare your development environment to efficiently and properly use Medusa.

## Required Tools

To get your development environment ready you need to install the following tools:

### Node.js

Node.js is the environment that makes it possible for Medusa to run, so you must install Node.js on your computer to start Medusa development.

:::caution

Medusa supports v16 or greater of Node.js. You can check your Node.js version using the following command:

```bash noReport
node -v
```

:::

<Tabs groupId="operating-systems">
<TabItem value="windows" label="Windows" default>

You can install the executable directly from [the Node.js website](https://nodejs.org/en/#home-downloadhead).

For other approaches, you can check out [Node.js’s guide](https://nodejs.org/en/download/package-manager/#windows-1).

</TabItem>
<TabItem value="linux" label="Linux">

You can use the following commands to install Node.js on Ubuntu:

```bash
#Ubuntu
sudo apt update
sudo apt install nodejs
```

For other Linux distributions, you can check out [Node.js’s guide](https://nodejs.org/en/download/package-manager/).

</TabItem>
<TabItem value="macos" label="macOS">

You can use the following commands to install Node.js on macOS:

<Tabs groupId="homebrew" isCodeTabs={true}>
<TabItem value="homebrew" label="Homebrew">

```bash
brew install node
```

</TabItem>
<TabItem value="no-homebrew" label="Without Homebrew">

```bash
curl \
 "https://nodejs.org/dist/latest/node-${VERSION:-$(wget -qO- \
  https://nodejs.org/dist/latest/ | sed -nE \ 
  's|.*>node-(.*)\.pkg</a>.*|\1|p')}.pkg" \
  > "$HOME/Downloads/node-latest.pkg" && 
  sudo installer -store -pkg "$HOME/Downloads/node-latest.pkg" -target "/"
```

</TabItem>
</Tabs>

For other approaches, you can check out [Node.js’s guide](https://nodejs.org/en/download/package-manager/#macos).

:::tip

Make sure that you have Xcode command line tools installed; if not,  run the following command to install it: `xcode-select --install`

:::
</TabItem>
</Tabs>

### Git

Medusa uses Git behind the scenes when you create a new project so you'll have to install it on your computer to get started.

<Tabs groupId="operating-systems">
<TabItem value="windows" label="Windows" default>

To install Git on Windows, you need to [download the installable package](https://git-scm.com/download/win).

</TabItem>
<TabItem value="linux" label="Linux">

For Debian/Ubuntu, you can use the following command:

```bash
apt-get install git
```

As for other Linux distributions, please check [git’s guide](https://git-scm.com/download/linux).

</TabItem>
<TabItem value="macos" label="macOS">

You should already have Git installed as part of the Xcode command-line tools.

However, if for any reason you need to install it manually, you can install it with Homebrew:

```bash
brew install git
```

You can also check out [git’s guide](https://git-scm.com/download/mac) for more installation options.

</TabItem>
</Tabs>

### Medusa CLI

The final installation required to get started with Medusa is the Medusa CLI. It is an NPM package you can install globally on your machine to get instant access to commands that help you manage and run your Medusa project.

You can install Medusa’s CLI with the following command:

```bash npm2yarn
npm install @medusajs/medusa-cli -g
```

You can check that Medusa was installed by running the following command:

```bash noReport
medusa -v
```

:::note

If you run into any errors while installing the CLI tool, check out the [troubleshooting guide](../../troubleshooting/cli-installation-errors.mdx).

:::

### PostgreSQL

The Medusa backend uses PostgreSQL to store data of your commerce system.

:::tip

After installing PostgreSQL, check out the [Configure your Backend documentation](./configurations.md#postgresql-configurations) to learn how to configure PostgreSQL to work with Medusa.

:::

<Tabs groupId="operating-systems">
<TabItem value="windows" label="Windows">

You can [download the PostgreSQL Windows installer](https://www.postgresql.org/download/windows/) from their website.

</TabItem>
<TabItem value="linux" label="Linux">

If you’re using Ubuntu, you can use the following commands to download and install PostgreSQL:

```bash
sudo sh -c \
  'echo "deb http://apt.postgresql.org/pub/repos/apt $(lsb_release -cs)-pgdg main" > /etc/apt/sources.list.d/pgdg.list'
wget --quiet -O - \
  https://www.postgresql.org/media/keys/ACCC4CF8.asc | sudo apt-key add -
sudo apt-get update
sudo apt-get -y install postgresql
```

For other distributions, you can check out [PostgreSQL’s website for more guides](https://www.postgresql.org/download/linux/).

</TabItem>
<TabItem value="macos" label="macOS">

You can download PostgreSQL on your macOS using [the installer on their website](https://www.postgresql.org/download/macosx/).

</TabItem>
</Tabs>

---

## Install Medusa Backend

If you're not interested in installing the optional tools and want to get started with Medusa quickly, check out the [Medusa Backend Quickstart](./install.mdx).

## See Also

- [Install Medusa backend](./install.mdx)
- [Configure the Medusa backend](./configurations.md)
