docs/content/advanced/backend/upgrade-guides/1-7-0.md, before:

---
description: 'Actions Required for v.1.7.0'
---

# v1.7.0

Version `1.7.0` of Medusa introduces a breaking change in the [CustomerService](../../../references/services/classes/CustomerService.md).

## Overview

In this new version, the method [`retrieveByEmail` in the Customer Service](../../../references/services/classes/CustomerService.md#retrievebyemail) has been deprecated in favor of other methods. Read the actions required below to learn which methods to use instead.

## Actions Required

Instead of using `customerService.retrieveByEmail`, you should now use the methods `customerService.retrieveRegisteredByEmail` or `customerService.retrieveUnRegisteredByEmail`.

The `customerService.retrieveRegisteredByEmail` method allows you to retrieve a registered customer by email:

```tsx
customerService.retrieveRegisteredByEmail("example@gmail.com");
```

On the other hand, the `retrieveUnregisteredByEmail` method allows to retrieve guest customers by email:

```jsx
customerService.retrieveUnRegisteredByEmail("example@gmail.com");
```

To retrieve a customer by email regardless of whether they are registered or not, you can use the `customerService.list` method instead:

```tsx
customerService.list({
  email: "example@gmail.com"
})
```

Commit message:

docs: added a note about running migrations (#2875)
* docs: added a note about running migrations

* docs: fixed link

docs/content/advanced/backend/upgrade-guides/1-7-0.md, after:

---
description: 'Actions Required for v.1.7.0'
---

# v1.7.0

Version `1.7.0` of Medusa introduces a breaking change in the [CustomerService](../../../references/services/classes/CustomerService.md).

## Overview

In this new version, the method [`retrieveByEmail` in the Customer Service](../../../references/services/classes/CustomerService.md#retrievebyemail) has been deprecated in favor of other methods. Read the actions required below to learn which methods to use instead.

In addition, after introducing the Claim Order feature, this version of Medusa introduces changes in the database that allows two customers having the same email based on the value of the `has_account` field. This change requires running migrations after the update.

## Actions Required

### Run Migrations

Run the following command to run migrations:

```bash
medusa migrations run
```

### Change Used Methods

Instead of using `customerService.retrieveByEmail`, you should now use the methods `customerService.retrieveRegisteredByEmail` or `customerService.retrieveUnRegisteredByEmail`.

The `customerService.retrieveRegisteredByEmail` method allows you to retrieve a registered customer by email:

```tsx
customerService.retrieveRegisteredByEmail("example@gmail.com");
```

On the other hand, the `retrieveUnregisteredByEmail` method allows to retrieve guest customers by email:

```jsx
customerService.retrieveUnRegisteredByEmail("example@gmail.com");
```

To retrieve a customer by email regardless of whether they are registered or not, you can use the `customerService.list` method instead:

```tsx
customerService.list({
  email: "example@gmail.com"
})
```
