docs/content/user-guide/products/index.mdx, before:

---
sidebar_position: 1
---

import UiIcon from '@site/src/components/UiIcon';

# Products Overview

In this document, you’ll get an overview of the product listing page and all the things you can do with it.

## Overview

Products are the goods you sell in your store. They can be physical or digital products. They can also be simple products or products with variants.

You can create products and edit their details. That includes basic info, sales channels, inventory management, prices management, and much more.

Part of the products domain is Collections. Collections are used to split products based on their type or function. For example, if you sell furniture and clothing, you can have two collections: Furniture and Clothing.

---

## View List of Products

You can view the list of available products in your ecommerce store by clicking on Products from the sidebar menu.

In the list, you can see product details such as the name, collection, inventory, and status of the product.

---

## Change Product View

### List View

To view products in a list view, which is the default view, click on the <UiIcon lightIcon="https://res.cloudinary.com/dza7lstvk/image/upload/v1667999530/Medusa%20Docs/UI%20Icons/A4kBy4n_da3gud.png" darkIcon="https://res.cloudinary.com/dza7lstvk/image/upload/v1667999544/Medusa%20Docs/UI%20Icons/y50COcH_dby5ol.png" alt="list" /> icon at the top right of the product list.

### Grid View

To view products in a grid view, click on the <UiIcon lightIcon="https://res.cloudinary.com/dza7lstvk/image/upload/v1667999559/Medusa%20Docs/UI%20Icons/HXMOOzK_mfmw9o.png" darkIcon="https://res.cloudinary.com/dza7lstvk/image/upload/v1667999573/Medusa%20Docs/UI%20Icons/fAHh3vz_etj57w.png" alt="grid" /> icon at the top right of the product list.

---

## View List of Collections

You can view the list of collections on the Products page by clicking on the grey Collections headline next to the Products headline.

In the list, you can see collection details such as the title, handle, and the number of products in the collection.

---

## Learn More About Products

- [Manage Products](./manage.mdx)
- [Manage Collections](./collections.mdx)
- [Export Products](./export.mdx)
- [Import Products](./import.mdx)

Commit message:

docs: improved SEO of documentation (#3117)
* docs: added description to documentation pages

* docs: added more descriptions

* docs: finished improving meta description

* docs: added searchbox structured data

* docs: added breadcrumbs structured data

* docs: added how to structured data

* docs: improved 404 page

* docs: added how-to frontmatter option

docs/content/user-guide/products/index.mdx, after:

---
sidebar_position: 1
description: 'Medusa admin allows merchants to manage products. Merchants can view products and collections, edit them, and more.'
---

import UiIcon from '@site/src/components/UiIcon';

# Products Overview

In this document, you’ll get an overview of the product listing page and all the things you can do with it.

## Overview

Products are the goods you sell in your store. They can be physical or digital products. They can also be simple products or products with variants.

You can create products and edit their details. That includes basic info, sales channels, inventory management, prices management, and much more.

Part of the products domain is Collections. Collections are used to split products based on their type or function. For example, if you sell furniture and clothing, you can have two collections: Furniture and Clothing.

---

## View List of Products

You can view the list of available products in your ecommerce store by clicking on Products from the sidebar menu.

In the list, you can see product details such as the name, collection, inventory, and status of the product.

---

## Change Product View

### List View

To view products in a list view, which is the default view, click on the <UiIcon lightIcon="https://res.cloudinary.com/dza7lstvk/image/upload/v1667999530/Medusa%20Docs/UI%20Icons/A4kBy4n_da3gud.png" darkIcon="https://res.cloudinary.com/dza7lstvk/image/upload/v1667999544/Medusa%20Docs/UI%20Icons/y50COcH_dby5ol.png" alt="list" /> icon at the top right of the product list.

### Grid View

To view products in a grid view, click on the <UiIcon lightIcon="https://res.cloudinary.com/dza7lstvk/image/upload/v1667999559/Medusa%20Docs/UI%20Icons/HXMOOzK_mfmw9o.png" darkIcon="https://res.cloudinary.com/dza7lstvk/image/upload/v1667999573/Medusa%20Docs/UI%20Icons/fAHh3vz_etj57w.png" alt="grid" /> icon at the top right of the product list.

---

## View List of Collections

You can view the list of collections on the Products page by clicking on the grey Collections headline next to the Products headline.

In the list, you can see collection details such as the title, handle, and the number of products in the collection.

---

## Learn More About Products

- [Manage Products](./manage.mdx)
- [Manage Collections](./collections.mdx)
- [Export Products](./export.mdx)
- [Import Products](./import.mdx)
