docs/content/user-guide/products/manage.mdx, before:

---
sidebar_position: 2
---

import UiIcon from '@site/src/components/UiIcon';

# Manage Products

In this document, you’ll learn how to create new products, edit different fields and areas in a product, and more.

## Create a Product

To create a new product:

1. Go to the Products page.
2. Click on the New Product button at the top right.

This opens a new form with different sections. The only field required is the Title field in the General Information Section.

### General Information Section

1. Enter the required field Title.
2. If you don’t provide a value for the Handle field, it will be generated from the title.
3. If you don’t want discounts to be applied to this product, toggle the Discountable field off.
4. Optionally enter the rest of the general information fields.

### Organize Section

All fields in this section allow you to better group and filter your products using types, collections, and tags.

1. You can either choose from a list of types or create a new one.
2. You can choose from a list of collections.
3. Tags are comma-separated. After entering a tag’s value, add a comma “,” and it will create the tag. You can remove the tag by pressing the <UiIcon lightIcon="https://res.cloudinary.com/dza7lstvk/image/upload/v1667999180/Medusa%20Docs/UI%20Icons/kvGRHQR_s0ptsm.png" darkIcon="https://res.cloudinary.com/dza7lstvk/image/upload/v1667999200/Medusa%20Docs/UI%20Icons/RJ4SLIu_n30zqr.png" alt="X" /> icon next to it.

### Variants Section

In this section, you can create different options and variants of a product. You must add an option before you can add variants.

1. Add a new option by clicking the “Add an option” button.
    1. This shows two new fields: the Title and the Variations fields. Separate the variations using a comma “,”. You can remove a variation by clicking the <UiIcon lightIcon="https://res.cloudinary.com/dza7lstvk/image/upload/v1667999180/Medusa%20Docs/UI%20Icons/kvGRHQR_s0ptsm.png" darkIcon="https://res.cloudinary.com/dza7lstvk/image/upload/v1667999200/Medusa%20Docs/UI%20Icons/RJ4SLIu_n30zqr.png" alt="X" /> icon next to it.
    2. To remove an option, click on the <UiIcon lightIcon="https://res.cloudinary.com/dza7lstvk/image/upload/v1667999273/Medusa%20Docs/UI%20Icons/7hztVhj_mj6mxu.png" darkIcon="https://res.cloudinary.com/dza7lstvk/image/upload/v1667999290/Medusa%20Docs/UI%20Icons/1yp4PNt_vzwnhf.png" alt="trash" /> icon next to it.
2. Add a new variant by clicking the “Add a variant” button. In the new window that opens:
    1. Enter the required fields Custom title and choose a value for each option you created.
    2. In the Pricing section, you can specify the price for each currency. To specify the price per region:
        1. Click on the <UiIcon lightIcon="https://res.cloudinary.com/dza7lstvk/image/upload/v1667999595/Medusa%20Docs/UI%20Icons/A91y4rk_doqj9s.png" darkIcon="https://res.cloudinary.com/dza7lstvk/image/upload/v1667999615/Medusa%20Docs/UI%20Icons/knwwocb_ll4l6m.png" alt="right arrow" /> icon next to the currency. This expands a list of regions below the currency. These are regions that use this currency.
        2. Enter the price for the region you want.
    3. In the Stock & Inventory section, you can manage how Medusa handles the product’s inventory, the quantity in stock, and more.
        1. If Manage Inventory is enabled, Medusa will change the available quantity of the variant when orders or returns are made.
        2. If Allow Backorders is enabled, customers can purchase this variant even if it’s out-of-stock.
    4. In the Shipping section, you can specify information relevant to shipping such as Height, Weight, Country of origin, and more.
3. You can edit a variant by clicking the <UiIcon lightIcon="https://res.cloudinary.com/dza7lstvk/image/upload/v1667999308/Medusa%20Docs/UI%20Icons/1ordBC6_ssysel.png" darkIcon="https://res.cloudinary.com/dza7lstvk/image/upload/v1667999326/Medusa%20Docs/UI%20Icons/dSwWYBH_stzgoi.png" alt="three dots" /> icon, then choosing Edit from the dropdown.
4. You can delete a variant by clicking the <UiIcon lightIcon="https://res.cloudinary.com/dza7lstvk/image/upload/v1667999308/Medusa%20Docs/UI%20Icons/1ordBC6_ssysel.png" darkIcon="https://res.cloudinary.com/dza7lstvk/image/upload/v1667999326/Medusa%20Docs/UI%20Icons/dSwWYBH_stzgoi.png" alt="three dots" /> icon, then choosing Delete from the dropdown.

### Attributes Section

This section includes optional fields that are used for shipping and customs.

### Thumbnail Section

:::info

You can upload only one thumbnail. Uploading another thumbnail replaces the previous one.

:::

1. To upload a thumbnail either:
    1. Click the dashed box and choose an image;
    2. Or drag-and-drop an image in the dashed box.
2. To delete a thumbnail:
    1. Click on the <UiIcon lightIcon="https://res.cloudinary.com/dza7lstvk/image/upload/v1667999308/Medusa%20Docs/UI%20Icons/1ordBC6_ssysel.png" darkIcon="https://res.cloudinary.com/dza7lstvk/image/upload/v1667999326/Medusa%20Docs/UI%20Icons/dSwWYBH_stzgoi.png" alt="three dots" /> icon.
    2. Click Delete from the dropdown.

### Media Section

:::info

You can upload more than one image in the Media section.

:::

1. To upload an image either:
    1. Click the dashed box and choose an image;
    2. Or drag-and-drop an image in the dashed box.
2. To delete an image:
    1. Click on the <UiIcon lightIcon="https://res.cloudinary.com/dza7lstvk/image/upload/v1667999308/Medusa%20Docs/UI%20Icons/1ordBC6_ssysel.png" darkIcon="https://res.cloudinary.com/dza7lstvk/image/upload/v1667999326/Medusa%20Docs/UI%20Icons/dSwWYBH_stzgoi.png" alt="three dots" /> icon.
    2. Click Delete from the dropdown.

### Save the Product

To save the product you can either:

1. Click the “Save as draft” button to save the product without publishing it.
2. Click the “Publish product” button to save the product and publish it.

## View Product Details

To view a product’s details:

1. Go to the Products page.
2. Click on the product you want to view.

## Edit a Product’s General Information

To edit a product’s general information:

1. Go to the product’s details page.
2. Click on the <UiIcon lightIcon="https://res.cloudinary.com/dza7lstvk/image/upload/v1667999308/Medusa%20Docs/UI%20Icons/1ordBC6_ssysel.png" darkIcon="https://res.cloudinary.com/dza7lstvk/image/upload/v1667999326/Medusa%20Docs/UI%20Icons/dSwWYBH_stzgoi.png" alt="three dots" /> at the top right of the first section.
3. Click on “Edit General Information” from the dropdown.
4. Edit any of the information in the window.
5. Once done, click on the Save button.

## Change a Product’s Status

A product’s status can either be Draft or Published.

To change a product’s status:

1. Go to the product’s details page.
2. Click on the status at the top right of the first section. For example, if the current status of the product is Draft, you should see Draft written at the top right of the first section.
3. Click on the status in the dropdown to change the status.

## Manage Product Options

:::info

After a product is created, the only way to add values to an option is when you add or edit a variant. Adding a new option automatically creates the value “Default Value”. An option’s value is deleted if no variant is using it.

:::

To manage a product’s option:

1. Go to the product’s details page.
2. Click on the <UiIcon lightIcon="https://res.cloudinary.com/dza7lstvk/image/upload/v1667999308/Medusa%20Docs/UI%20Icons/1ordBC6_ssysel.png" darkIcon="https://res.cloudinary.com/dza7lstvk/image/upload/v1667999326/Medusa%20Docs/UI%20Icons/dSwWYBH_stzgoi.png" alt="three dots" /> icon in the top right of the Variants section.
3. Click on Edit Options from the dropdown.
4. In the new window that opens:
    1. You can add a new option by clicking the “Add an option” button.
    2. You can edit an option’s name by changing its name in the field.
    3. You can delete an option by clicking the <UiIcon lightIcon="https://res.cloudinary.com/dza7lstvk/image/upload/v1667999273/Medusa%20Docs/UI%20Icons/7hztVhj_mj6mxu.png" darkIcon="https://res.cloudinary.com/dza7lstvk/image/upload/v1667999290/Medusa%20Docs/UI%20Icons/1yp4PNt_vzwnhf.png" alt="trash" /> icon.
5. Once you’re done, click on the "Save and close" button.

## Manage Product Variants

### Add a Variant

:::info

Multiple variants can’t have the same options combination.

:::

To add a variant to a product:

1. Go to the product’s details page.
2. Click on the <UiIcon lightIcon="https://res.cloudinary.com/dza7lstvk/image/upload/v1667999308/Medusa%20Docs/UI%20Icons/1ordBC6_ssysel.png" darkIcon="https://res.cloudinary.com/dza7lstvk/image/upload/v1667999326/Medusa%20Docs/UI%20Icons/dSwWYBH_stzgoi.png" alt="three dots" /> icon in the top right of the Variants section.
3. Click on Add Variant from the dropdown.
4. In the window that opens:
    1. Enter the required title field.
    2. Choose a value for each option in the product.
    3. In the Pricing section, you can specify the price for each currency. To specify the price per region:
        1. Click on the <UiIcon lightIcon="https://res.cloudinary.com/dza7lstvk/image/upload/v1667999595/Medusa%20Docs/UI%20Icons/A91y4rk_doqj9s.png" darkIcon="https://res.cloudinary.com/dza7lstvk/image/upload/v1667999615/Medusa%20Docs/UI%20Icons/knwwocb_ll4l6m.png" alt="right arrow" /> icon next to the currency. This expands a list of regions below the currency. These are regions that use this currency.
        2. Enter the price for the region you want.
    4. In the Stock & Inventory section, you can manage how Medusa handles the product’s inventory, the quantity in Stock, and more.
        1. If Manage Inventory is enabled, Medusa will change the available quantity of the variant when orders or returns are made.
        2. If Allow Backorders is enabled, customers can purchase this variant even if it’s out-of-stock.
    5. In the Shipping section, you can specify information relevant to shipping such as Height, Weight, Country of origin, and more.
5. Once you’re done, click on the “Save and close” button.

### Edit Variants Position

To edit variants’ position in a product:

1. Go to the product’s details page.
2. Click on the <UiIcon lightIcon="https://res.cloudinary.com/dza7lstvk/image/upload/v1667999308/Medusa%20Docs/UI%20Icons/1ordBC6_ssysel.png" darkIcon="https://res.cloudinary.com/dza7lstvk/image/upload/v1667999326/Medusa%20Docs/UI%20Icons/dSwWYBH_stzgoi.png" alt="three dots" /> icon in the top right of the Variants section.
3. Click on Edit Variants from the dropdown.
4. In the window that opens:
    1. Click and hold the <UiIcon lightIcon="https://res.cloudinary.com/dza7lstvk/image/upload/v1667999654/Medusa%20Docs/UI%20Icons/zp2QTbO_io0f7i.png" darkIcon="https://res.cloudinary.com/dza7lstvk/image/upload/v1667999668/Medusa%20Docs/UI%20Icons/ZPpOcvi_h14vyz.png" alt="grip" /> icon next to the variant, then drag it to the position you want.
    2. You can also change the inventory of the variants.
5. Once you’re done, click on the “Save and close” button.

### Edit a Variant

To edit a variant:

1. Go to the product’s details page.
2. Find the variant you want to edit in the Variants section.
3. Click on the <UiIcon lightIcon="https://res.cloudinary.com/dza7lstvk/image/upload/v1667999308/Medusa%20Docs/UI%20Icons/1ordBC6_ssysel.png" darkIcon="https://res.cloudinary.com/dza7lstvk/image/upload/v1667999326/Medusa%20Docs/UI%20Icons/dSwWYBH_stzgoi.png" alt="three dots" /> icon.
4. Click on Edit Variant from the dropdown.
5. In the new window that opens, you can edit all of the variant’s information.
6. Once you’re done, click on the “Save and close” button.

### Duplicate a Variant

To duplicate a variant:

1. Go to the product’s details page.
2. Find the variant you want to duplicate in the Variants section.
3. Click on the <UiIcon lightIcon="https://res.cloudinary.com/dza7lstvk/image/upload/v1667999308/Medusa%20Docs/UI%20Icons/1ordBC6_ssysel.png" darkIcon="https://res.cloudinary.com/dza7lstvk/image/upload/v1667999326/Medusa%20Docs/UI%20Icons/dSwWYBH_stzgoi.png" alt="three dots" /> icon.
4. Click on Duplicate Variant from the dropdown.
5. This opens a new window with almost all fields filled except for the selected Options.
6. Once you’re done, click on the “Save and close” button.

### Delete a Variant

:::warning

Deleting a variant can’t be undone.

:::

To delete a variant:

1. Go to the product’s details page.
2. Find the variant you want to duplicate in the Variants section.
3. Click on the <UiIcon lightIcon="https://res.cloudinary.com/dza7lstvk/image/upload/v1667999308/Medusa%20Docs/UI%20Icons/1ordBC6_ssysel.png" darkIcon="https://res.cloudinary.com/dza7lstvk/image/upload/v1667999326/Medusa%20Docs/UI%20Icons/dSwWYBH_stzgoi.png" alt="three dots" /> icon.
4. Click on Delete Variant from the dropdown.

## Edit a Product’s Attributes

To edit a product’s attributes:

1. Go to the product’s details page.
2. Click on the <UiIcon lightIcon="https://res.cloudinary.com/dza7lstvk/image/upload/v1667999308/Medusa%20Docs/UI%20Icons/1ordBC6_ssysel.png" darkIcon="https://res.cloudinary.com/dza7lstvk/image/upload/v1667999326/Medusa%20Docs/UI%20Icons/dSwWYBH_stzgoi.png" alt="three dots" /> icon in the top right of the Attributes section.
3. Click on Edit Attributes from the dropdown.
4. In the new window that opens, you can edit any of the attribute information of the product.
5. Once you’re done, click on the Save button.

## Manage Thumbnails

### Set Thumbnail

:::info

You can have only one thumbnail. If you add another, it replaces the existing one.

:::

To manage the thumbnail of a product:

1. Go to the product’s details page.
2. In the Thumbnail section, click on either the Edit or Upload buttons depending on whether you already have a thumbnail for the product or not.
3. In the new window, to upload the thumbnail you can either:
    1. Click the dashed box and choose an image;
    2. Or drag-and-drop an image in the dashed box.
4. Once you’re done, click on the “Save and close” button.

### Delete Thumbnail

:::caution

Deleting a thumbnail can’t be undone.

:::

To delete a thumbnail:

1. Go to the product’s details page.
2. Click on the <UiIcon lightIcon="https://res.cloudinary.com/dza7lstvk/image/upload/v1667999273/Medusa%20Docs/UI%20Icons/7hztVhj_mj6mxu.png" darkIcon="https://res.cloudinary.com/dza7lstvk/image/upload/v1667999290/Medusa%20Docs/UI%20Icons/1yp4PNt_vzwnhf.png" alt="trash" /> icon at the top right of the Thumbnail section.
3. Click the Confirm button.

## Manage Images

:::info

You can upload more than one image for the product.

:::

To manage a product’s images

1. Go to the product’s details page.
2. Click on the Edit Media button in the Media section.
3. In the new window that opens:
    1. To upload a new image you can either:
        1. Click the dashed box and choose an image;
        2. Or drag-and-drop an image in the dashed box.
    2. To delete an image:
        1. Click on the <UiIcon lightIcon="https://res.cloudinary.com/dza7lstvk/image/upload/v1667999308/Medusa%20Docs/UI%20Icons/1ordBC6_ssysel.png" darkIcon="https://res.cloudinary.com/dza7lstvk/image/upload/v1667999326/Medusa%20Docs/UI%20Icons/dSwWYBH_stzgoi.png" alt="three dots" /> icon.
        2. Click on Delete from the dropdown.
4. Once you’re done, click Save and close.

## Duplicate a Product

To duplicate a product:

1. Go to the Products page.
2. Click on the <UiIcon lightIcon="https://res.cloudinary.com/dza7lstvk/image/upload/v1667999308/Medusa%20Docs/UI%20Icons/1ordBC6_ssysel.png" darkIcon="https://res.cloudinary.com/dza7lstvk/image/upload/v1667999326/Medusa%20Docs/UI%20Icons/dSwWYBH_stzgoi.png" alt="three dots" /> icon next to the product you want to duplicate.
3. Click on Duplicate from the dropdown.

This creates a product with the same information as the original but as a draft.

## Delete a Product

:::warning

Deleting a product can’t be undone. You’ll lose all the product information.

:::

To delete a product:

1. Go to the Products page.
2. Click on the <UiIcon lightIcon="https://res.cloudinary.com/dza7lstvk/image/upload/v1667999308/Medusa%20Docs/UI%20Icons/1ordBC6_ssysel.png" darkIcon="https://res.cloudinary.com/dza7lstvk/image/upload/v1667999326/Medusa%20Docs/UI%20Icons/dSwWYBH_stzgoi.png" alt="three dots" /> icon next to the product you want to delete.
3. Click on Delete from the dropdown.
4. Confirm deleting the product by clicking the “Yes, confirm” button in the pop-up.

Commit message:

docs: improved SEO of documentation (#3117)
* docs: added description to documentation pages

* docs: added more descriptions

* docs: finished improving meta description

* docs: added searchbox structured data

* docs: added breadcrumbs structured data

* docs: added how to structured data

* docs: improved 404 page

* docs: added how-to frontmatter option

docs/content/user-guide/products/manage.mdx, after:

---
sidebar_position: 2
description: 'This user guide explains how to manage products on the Medusa admin. Learn how to create a product, edit a product, and more.'
addHowToData: true
---

import UiIcon from '@site/src/components/UiIcon';

# Manage Products

In this document, you’ll learn how to create new products, edit different fields and areas in a product, and more.

## Create a Product

To create a new product:

1. Go to the Products page.
2. Click on the New Product button at the top right.

This opens a new form with different sections. The only field required is the Title field in the General Information Section.

### General Information Section

1. Enter the required field Title.
2. If you don’t provide a value for the Handle field, it will be generated from the title.
3. If you don’t want discounts to be applied to this product, toggle the Discountable field off.
4. Optionally enter the rest of the general information fields.

### Organize Section

All fields in this section allow you to better group and filter your products using types, collections, and tags.

1. You can either choose from a list of types or create a new one.
2. You can choose from a list of collections.
3. Tags are comma-separated. After entering a tag’s value, add a comma “,” and it will create the tag. You can remove the tag by pressing the <UiIcon lightIcon="https://res.cloudinary.com/dza7lstvk/image/upload/v1667999180/Medusa%20Docs/UI%20Icons/kvGRHQR_s0ptsm.png" darkIcon="https://res.cloudinary.com/dza7lstvk/image/upload/v1667999200/Medusa%20Docs/UI%20Icons/RJ4SLIu_n30zqr.png" alt="X" /> icon next to it.

### Variants Section

In this section, you can create different options and variants of a product. You must add an option before you can add variants.

1. Add a new option by clicking the “Add an option” button.
    1. This shows two new fields: the Title and the Variations fields. Separate the variations using a comma “,”. You can remove a variation by clicking the <UiIcon lightIcon="https://res.cloudinary.com/dza7lstvk/image/upload/v1667999180/Medusa%20Docs/UI%20Icons/kvGRHQR_s0ptsm.png" darkIcon="https://res.cloudinary.com/dza7lstvk/image/upload/v1667999200/Medusa%20Docs/UI%20Icons/RJ4SLIu_n30zqr.png" alt="X" /> icon next to it.
    2. To remove an option, click on the <UiIcon lightIcon="https://res.cloudinary.com/dza7lstvk/image/upload/v1667999273/Medusa%20Docs/UI%20Icons/7hztVhj_mj6mxu.png" darkIcon="https://res.cloudinary.com/dza7lstvk/image/upload/v1667999290/Medusa%20Docs/UI%20Icons/1yp4PNt_vzwnhf.png" alt="trash" /> icon next to it.
2. Add a new variant by clicking the “Add a variant” button. In the new window that opens:
    1. Enter the required fields Custom title and choose a value for each option you created.
    2. In the Pricing section, you can specify the price for each currency. To specify the price per region:
        1. Click on the <UiIcon lightIcon="https://res.cloudinary.com/dza7lstvk/image/upload/v1667999595/Medusa%20Docs/UI%20Icons/A91y4rk_doqj9s.png" darkIcon="https://res.cloudinary.com/dza7lstvk/image/upload/v1667999615/Medusa%20Docs/UI%20Icons/knwwocb_ll4l6m.png" alt="right arrow" /> icon next to the currency. This expands a list of regions below the currency. These are regions that use this currency.
        2. Enter the price for the region you want.
    3. In the Stock & Inventory section, you can manage how Medusa handles the product’s inventory, the quantity in stock, and more.
        1. If Manage Inventory is enabled, Medusa will change the available quantity of the variant when orders or returns are made.
        2. If Allow Backorders is enabled, customers can purchase this variant even if it’s out-of-stock.
    4. In the Shipping section, you can specify information relevant to shipping such as Height, Weight, Country of origin, and more.
3. You can edit a variant by clicking the <UiIcon lightIcon="https://res.cloudinary.com/dza7lstvk/image/upload/v1667999308/Medusa%20Docs/UI%20Icons/1ordBC6_ssysel.png" darkIcon="https://res.cloudinary.com/dza7lstvk/image/upload/v1667999326/Medusa%20Docs/UI%20Icons/dSwWYBH_stzgoi.png" alt="three dots" /> icon, then choosing Edit from the dropdown.
4. You can delete a variant by clicking the <UiIcon lightIcon="https://res.cloudinary.com/dza7lstvk/image/upload/v1667999308/Medusa%20Docs/UI%20Icons/1ordBC6_ssysel.png" darkIcon="https://res.cloudinary.com/dza7lstvk/image/upload/v1667999326/Medusa%20Docs/UI%20Icons/dSwWYBH_stzgoi.png" alt="three dots" /> icon, then choosing Delete from the dropdown.

### Attributes Section

This section includes optional fields that are used for shipping and customs.

### Thumbnail Section

:::info

You can upload only one thumbnail. Uploading another thumbnail replaces the previous one.

:::

1. To upload a thumbnail either:
    1. Click the dashed box and choose an image;
    2. Or drag-and-drop an image in the dashed box.
2. To delete a thumbnail:
    1. Click on the <UiIcon lightIcon="https://res.cloudinary.com/dza7lstvk/image/upload/v1667999308/Medusa%20Docs/UI%20Icons/1ordBC6_ssysel.png" darkIcon="https://res.cloudinary.com/dza7lstvk/image/upload/v1667999326/Medusa%20Docs/UI%20Icons/dSwWYBH_stzgoi.png" alt="three dots" /> icon.
    2. Click Delete from the dropdown.

### Media Section

:::info

You can upload more than one image in the Media section.

:::

1. To upload an image either:
    1. Click the dashed box and choose an image;
    2. Or drag-and-drop an image in the dashed box.
2. To delete an image:
    1. Click on the <UiIcon lightIcon="https://res.cloudinary.com/dza7lstvk/image/upload/v1667999308/Medusa%20Docs/UI%20Icons/1ordBC6_ssysel.png" darkIcon="https://res.cloudinary.com/dza7lstvk/image/upload/v1667999326/Medusa%20Docs/UI%20Icons/dSwWYBH_stzgoi.png" alt="three dots" /> icon.
    2. Click Delete from the dropdown.

### Save the Product

To save the product you can either:

1. Click the “Save as draft” button to save the product without publishing it.
2. Click the “Publish product” button to save the product and publish it.

## View Product Details

To view a product’s details:

1. Go to the Products page.
2. Click on the product you want to view.

## Edit a Product’s General Information

To edit a product’s general information:

1. Go to the product’s details page.
2. Click on the <UiIcon lightIcon="https://res.cloudinary.com/dza7lstvk/image/upload/v1667999308/Medusa%20Docs/UI%20Icons/1ordBC6_ssysel.png" darkIcon="https://res.cloudinary.com/dza7lstvk/image/upload/v1667999326/Medusa%20Docs/UI%20Icons/dSwWYBH_stzgoi.png" alt="three dots" /> at the top right of the first section.
3. Click on “Edit General Information” from the dropdown.
4. Edit any of the information in the window.
5. Once done, click on the Save button.

## Change a Product’s Status

A product’s status can either be Draft or Published.

To change a product’s status:

1. Go to the product’s details page.
2. Click on the status at the top right of the first section. For example, if the current status of the product is Draft, you should see Draft written at the top right of the first section.
3. Click on the status in the dropdown to change the status.

## Manage Product Options

:::info

After a product is created, the only way to add values to an option is when you add or edit a variant. Adding a new option automatically creates the value “Default Value”. An option’s value is deleted if no variant is using it.

:::

To manage a product’s option:

1. Go to the product’s details page.
2. Click on the <UiIcon lightIcon="https://res.cloudinary.com/dza7lstvk/image/upload/v1667999308/Medusa%20Docs/UI%20Icons/1ordBC6_ssysel.png" darkIcon="https://res.cloudinary.com/dza7lstvk/image/upload/v1667999326/Medusa%20Docs/UI%20Icons/dSwWYBH_stzgoi.png" alt="three dots" /> icon in the top right of the Variants section.
3. Click on Edit Options from the dropdown.
4. In the new window that opens:
    1. You can add a new option by clicking the “Add an option” button.
    2. You can edit an option’s name by changing its name in the field.
    3. You can delete an option by clicking the <UiIcon lightIcon="https://res.cloudinary.com/dza7lstvk/image/upload/v1667999273/Medusa%20Docs/UI%20Icons/7hztVhj_mj6mxu.png" darkIcon="https://res.cloudinary.com/dza7lstvk/image/upload/v1667999290/Medusa%20Docs/UI%20Icons/1yp4PNt_vzwnhf.png" alt="trash" /> icon.
5. Once you’re done, click on the "Save and close" button.

## Manage Product Variants

### Add a Variant

:::info

Multiple variants can’t have the same options combination.

:::

To add a variant to a product:

1. Go to the product’s details page.
2. Click on the <UiIcon lightIcon="https://res.cloudinary.com/dza7lstvk/image/upload/v1667999308/Medusa%20Docs/UI%20Icons/1ordBC6_ssysel.png" darkIcon="https://res.cloudinary.com/dza7lstvk/image/upload/v1667999326/Medusa%20Docs/UI%20Icons/dSwWYBH_stzgoi.png" alt="three dots" /> icon in the top right of the Variants section.
3. Click on Add Variant from the dropdown.
4. In the window that opens:
    1. Enter the required title field.
    2. Choose a value for each option in the product.
    3. In the Pricing section, you can specify the price for each currency. To specify the price per region:
        1. Click on the <UiIcon lightIcon="https://res.cloudinary.com/dza7lstvk/image/upload/v1667999595/Medusa%20Docs/UI%20Icons/A91y4rk_doqj9s.png" darkIcon="https://res.cloudinary.com/dza7lstvk/image/upload/v1667999615/Medusa%20Docs/UI%20Icons/knwwocb_ll4l6m.png" alt="right arrow" /> icon next to the currency. This expands a list of regions below the currency. These are regions that use this currency.
        2. Enter the price for the region you want.
    4. In the Stock & Inventory section, you can manage how Medusa handles the product’s inventory, the quantity in Stock, and more.
        1. If Manage Inventory is enabled, Medusa will change the available quantity of the variant when orders or returns are made.
        2. If Allow Backorders is enabled, customers can purchase this variant even if it’s out-of-stock.
    5. In the Shipping section, you can specify information relevant to shipping such as Height, Weight, Country of origin, and more.
5. Once you’re done, click on the “Save and close” button.

### Edit Variants Position

To edit variants’ position in a product:

1. Go to the product’s details page.
2. Click on the <UiIcon lightIcon="https://res.cloudinary.com/dza7lstvk/image/upload/v1667999308/Medusa%20Docs/UI%20Icons/1ordBC6_ssysel.png" darkIcon="https://res.cloudinary.com/dza7lstvk/image/upload/v1667999326/Medusa%20Docs/UI%20Icons/dSwWYBH_stzgoi.png" alt="three dots" /> icon in the top right of the Variants section.
3. Click on Edit Variants from the dropdown.
4. In the window that opens:
    1. Click and hold the <UiIcon lightIcon="https://res.cloudinary.com/dza7lstvk/image/upload/v1667999654/Medusa%20Docs/UI%20Icons/zp2QTbO_io0f7i.png" darkIcon="https://res.cloudinary.com/dza7lstvk/image/upload/v1667999668/Medusa%20Docs/UI%20Icons/ZPpOcvi_h14vyz.png" alt="grip" /> icon next to the variant, then drag it to the position you want.
    2. You can also change the inventory of the variants.
5. Once you’re done, click on the “Save and close” button.

### Edit a Variant

To edit a variant:

1. Go to the product’s details page.
2. Find the variant you want to edit in the Variants section.
3. Click on the <UiIcon lightIcon="https://res.cloudinary.com/dza7lstvk/image/upload/v1667999308/Medusa%20Docs/UI%20Icons/1ordBC6_ssysel.png" darkIcon="https://res.cloudinary.com/dza7lstvk/image/upload/v1667999326/Medusa%20Docs/UI%20Icons/dSwWYBH_stzgoi.png" alt="three dots" /> icon.
4. Click on Edit Variant from the dropdown.
5. In the new window that opens, you can edit all of the variant’s information.
6. Once you’re done, click on the “Save and close” button.

### Duplicate a Variant

To duplicate a variant:

1. Go to the product’s details page.
2. Find the variant you want to duplicate in the Variants section.
3. Click on the <UiIcon lightIcon="https://res.cloudinary.com/dza7lstvk/image/upload/v1667999308/Medusa%20Docs/UI%20Icons/1ordBC6_ssysel.png" darkIcon="https://res.cloudinary.com/dza7lstvk/image/upload/v1667999326/Medusa%20Docs/UI%20Icons/dSwWYBH_stzgoi.png" alt="three dots" /> icon.
4. Click on Duplicate Variant from the dropdown.
5. This opens a new window with almost all fields filled except for the selected Options.
6. Once you’re done, click on the “Save and close” button.

### Delete a Variant

:::warning

Deleting a variant can’t be undone.

:::

To delete a variant:

1. Go to the product’s details page.
2. Find the variant you want to duplicate in the Variants section.
3. Click on the <UiIcon lightIcon="https://res.cloudinary.com/dza7lstvk/image/upload/v1667999308/Medusa%20Docs/UI%20Icons/1ordBC6_ssysel.png" darkIcon="https://res.cloudinary.com/dza7lstvk/image/upload/v1667999326/Medusa%20Docs/UI%20Icons/dSwWYBH_stzgoi.png" alt="three dots" /> icon.
4. Click on Delete Variant from the dropdown.

## Edit a Product’s Attributes

To edit a product’s attributes:

1. Go to the product’s details page.
2. Click on the <UiIcon lightIcon="https://res.cloudinary.com/dza7lstvk/image/upload/v1667999308/Medusa%20Docs/UI%20Icons/1ordBC6_ssysel.png" darkIcon="https://res.cloudinary.com/dza7lstvk/image/upload/v1667999326/Medusa%20Docs/UI%20Icons/dSwWYBH_stzgoi.png" alt="three dots" /> icon in the top right of the Attributes section.
3. Click on Edit Attributes from the dropdown.
4. In the new window that opens, you can edit any of the attribute information of the product.
5. Once you’re done, click on the Save button.

## Manage Thumbnails

### Set Thumbnail

:::info

You can have only one thumbnail. If you add another, it replaces the existing one.

:::

To manage the thumbnail of a product:

1. Go to the product’s details page.
2. In the Thumbnail section, click on either the Edit or Upload buttons depending on whether you already have a thumbnail for the product or not.
3. In the new window, to upload the thumbnail you can either:
    1. Click the dashed box and choose an image;
    2. Or drag-and-drop an image in the dashed box.
4. Once you’re done, click on the “Save and close” button.

### Delete Thumbnail

:::caution

Deleting a thumbnail can’t be undone.

:::

To delete a thumbnail:

1. Go to the product’s details page.
2. Click on the <UiIcon lightIcon="https://res.cloudinary.com/dza7lstvk/image/upload/v1667999273/Medusa%20Docs/UI%20Icons/7hztVhj_mj6mxu.png" darkIcon="https://res.cloudinary.com/dza7lstvk/image/upload/v1667999290/Medusa%20Docs/UI%20Icons/1yp4PNt_vzwnhf.png" alt="trash" /> icon at the top right of the Thumbnail section.
3. Click the Confirm button.

## Manage Images

:::info

You can upload more than one image for the product.

:::

To manage a product’s images

1. Go to the product’s details page.
2. Click on the Edit Media button in the Media section.
3. In the new window that opens:
    1. To upload a new image you can either:
        1. Click the dashed box and choose an image;
        2. Or drag-and-drop an image in the dashed box.
    2. To delete an image:
        1. Click on the <UiIcon lightIcon="https://res.cloudinary.com/dza7lstvk/image/upload/v1667999308/Medusa%20Docs/UI%20Icons/1ordBC6_ssysel.png" darkIcon="https://res.cloudinary.com/dza7lstvk/image/upload/v1667999326/Medusa%20Docs/UI%20Icons/dSwWYBH_stzgoi.png" alt="three dots" /> icon.
        2. Click on Delete from the dropdown.
4. Once you’re done, click Save and close.

## Duplicate a Product

To duplicate a product:

1. Go to the Products page.
2. Click on the <UiIcon lightIcon="https://res.cloudinary.com/dza7lstvk/image/upload/v1667999308/Medusa%20Docs/UI%20Icons/1ordBC6_ssysel.png" darkIcon="https://res.cloudinary.com/dza7lstvk/image/upload/v1667999326/Medusa%20Docs/UI%20Icons/dSwWYBH_stzgoi.png" alt="three dots" /> icon next to the product you want to duplicate.
3. Click on Duplicate from the dropdown.

This creates a product with the same information as the original but as a draft.

## Delete a Product

:::warning

Deleting a product can’t be undone. You’ll lose all the product information.

:::

To delete a product:

1. Go to the Products page.
2. Click on the <UiIcon lightIcon="https://res.cloudinary.com/dza7lstvk/image/upload/v1667999308/Medusa%20Docs/UI%20Icons/1ordBC6_ssysel.png" darkIcon="https://res.cloudinary.com/dza7lstvk/image/upload/v1667999326/Medusa%20Docs/UI%20Icons/dSwWYBH_stzgoi.png" alt="three dots" /> icon next to the product you want to delete.
3. Click on Delete from the dropdown.
4. Confirm deleting the product by clicking the “Yes, confirm” button in the pop-up.
