docs/content/user-guide/users/team.mdx, before:

---
sidebar_position: 2
---

import UiIcon from '@site/src/components/UiIcon';

# Manage Team

In this document, you’ll learn how to invite new users, edit other users’ information, and remove users from your team.

## View your Team

You can view your team by going to Settings → The Team.

## Manage Invites

To add a new user to your team, you must invite them. Invites are sent by email, but you can also copy the invite link and send it personally to the user.

### Invite a User

To send an invite to a user:

1. Go to your team page.
2. Click on the Invite Users button.
3. Enter the user’s email and choose their role.
4. Once done, click on the Invite button.

### Resend an Invite

If you want the user to receive a new email with the invite link, you can resend an invite to them.

To resend an invite to a user:

1. Go to your team page.
2. Find the user that you want to resend an invite to, then click on the <UiIcon lightIcon="https://res.cloudinary.com/dza7lstvk/image/upload/v1667999308/Medusa%20Docs/UI%20Icons/1ordBC6_ssysel.png" darkIcon="https://res.cloudinary.com/dza7lstvk/image/upload/v1667999326/Medusa%20Docs/UI%20Icons/dSwWYBH_stzgoi.png" alt="three dots" /> icon at its right.
3. Click on Resend Invitation from the dropdown.

### Get Invite Link

In addition to sending the user an invite, you can copy the invite link and send it manually to the user.

To copy the invite link:

1. Go to your team page.
2. Find the user invite, then click on the <UiIcon lightIcon="https://res.cloudinary.com/dza7lstvk/image/upload/v1667999308/Medusa%20Docs/UI%20Icons/1ordBC6_ssysel.png" darkIcon="https://res.cloudinary.com/dza7lstvk/image/upload/v1667999326/Medusa%20Docs/UI%20Icons/dSwWYBH_stzgoi.png" alt="three dots" /> icon at its right.
3. Click on “Copy invite link” from the dropdown.

### Remove Invite

:::info

Removing an invite would prevent the invited user from joining the team, even if they have the invitation link.

:::

To remove an invite:

1. Go to your team page.
2. Find the user invite, then click on the <UiIcon lightIcon="https://res.cloudinary.com/dza7lstvk/image/upload/v1667999308/Medusa%20Docs/UI%20Icons/1ordBC6_ssysel.png" darkIcon="https://res.cloudinary.com/dza7lstvk/image/upload/v1667999326/Medusa%20Docs/UI%20Icons/dSwWYBH_stzgoi.png" alt="three dots" /> icon at its right.
3. Click on “Remove invitation” from the dropdown.
4. Confirm removing the invitation by clicking the “Yes, remove” button in the pop-up.

## Edit a User’s Details

To edit a user’s details in your team:

1. Go to your team page.
2. Find the user and click on the <UiIcon lightIcon="https://res.cloudinary.com/dza7lstvk/image/upload/v1667999308/Medusa%20Docs/UI%20Icons/1ordBC6_ssysel.png" darkIcon="https://res.cloudinary.com/dza7lstvk/image/upload/v1667999326/Medusa%20Docs/UI%20Icons/dSwWYBH_stzgoi.png" alt="three dots" /> icon at its right.
3. In the new form, edit any of the user’s information.
4. Once done, click on the Save button.

## Remove a User

:::warning

Removing a user from a team can’t be done. The user’s details will be lost.

:::

To remove a user from your team:

1. Go to your team page.
2. Find the user and click on the <UiIcon lightIcon="https://res.cloudinary.com/dza7lstvk/image/upload/v1667999308/Medusa%20Docs/UI%20Icons/1ordBC6_ssysel.png" darkIcon="https://res.cloudinary.com/dza7lstvk/image/upload/v1667999326/Medusa%20Docs/UI%20Icons/dSwWYBH_stzgoi.png" alt="three dots" /> icon at its right.
3. Click on Remove User from the dropdown.
4. Confirm removing the user by clicking the “Yes, remove” button in the pop-up.

Commit message:

docs: improved SEO of documentation (#3117)
* docs: added description to documentation pages

* docs: added more descriptions

* docs: finished improving meta description

* docs: added searchbox structured data

* docs: added breadcrumbs structured data

* docs: added how to structured data

* docs: improved 404 page

* docs: added how-to frontmatter option

docs/content/user-guide/users/team.mdx, after:

---
sidebar_position: 3
description: 'This user guide explains how to manage the team on the Medusa admin. Learn how to invite users to your team and edit their details.'
addHowToData: true
---

import UiIcon from '@site/src/components/UiIcon';

# Manage Team

In this document, you’ll learn how to invite new users, edit other users’ information, and remove users from your team.

## View your Team

You can view your team by going to Settings → The Team.

---

## Manage Invites

To add a new user to your team, you must invite them. Invites are sent by email, but you can also copy the invite link and send it personally to the user.

### Invite a User

To send an invite to a user:

1. Go to your team page.
2. Click on the Invite Users button.
3. Enter the user’s email and choose their role.
4. Once done, click on the Invite button.

### Resend an Invite

If you want the user to receive a new email with the invite link, you can resend an invite to them.

To resend an invite to a user:

1. Go to your team page.
2. Find the user that you want to resend an invite to, then click on the <UiIcon lightIcon="https://res.cloudinary.com/dza7lstvk/image/upload/v1667999308/Medusa%20Docs/UI%20Icons/1ordBC6_ssysel.png" darkIcon="https://res.cloudinary.com/dza7lstvk/image/upload/v1667999326/Medusa%20Docs/UI%20Icons/dSwWYBH_stzgoi.png" alt="three dots" /> icon at its right.
3. Click on Resend Invitation from the dropdown.

### Get Invite Link

In addition to sending the user an invite, you can copy the invite link and send it manually to the user.

To copy the invite link:

1. Go to your team page.
2. Find the user invite, then click on the <UiIcon lightIcon="https://res.cloudinary.com/dza7lstvk/image/upload/v1667999308/Medusa%20Docs/UI%20Icons/1ordBC6_ssysel.png" darkIcon="https://res.cloudinary.com/dza7lstvk/image/upload/v1667999326/Medusa%20Docs/UI%20Icons/dSwWYBH_stzgoi.png" alt="three dots" /> icon at its right.
3. Click on “Copy invite link” from the dropdown.

### Remove Invite

:::info

Removing an invite would prevent the invited user from joining the team, even if they have the invitation link.

:::

To remove an invite:

1. Go to your team page.
2. Find the user invite, then click on the <UiIcon lightIcon="https://res.cloudinary.com/dza7lstvk/image/upload/v1667999308/Medusa%20Docs/UI%20Icons/1ordBC6_ssysel.png" darkIcon="https://res.cloudinary.com/dza7lstvk/image/upload/v1667999326/Medusa%20Docs/UI%20Icons/dSwWYBH_stzgoi.png" alt="three dots" /> icon at its right.
3. Click on “Remove invitation” from the dropdown.
4. Confirm removing the invitation by clicking the “Yes, remove” button in the pop-up.

---

## Edit a User’s Details

To edit a user’s details in your team:

1. Go to your team page.
2. Find the user and click on the <UiIcon lightIcon="https://res.cloudinary.com/dza7lstvk/image/upload/v1667999308/Medusa%20Docs/UI%20Icons/1ordBC6_ssysel.png" darkIcon="https://res.cloudinary.com/dza7lstvk/image/upload/v1667999326/Medusa%20Docs/UI%20Icons/dSwWYBH_stzgoi.png" alt="three dots" /> icon at its right.
3. In the new form, edit any of the user’s information.
4. Once done, click on the Save button.

---

## Remove a User

:::warning

Removing a user from a team can’t be done. The user’s details will be lost.

:::

To remove a user from your team:

1. Go to your team page.
2. Find the user and click on the <UiIcon lightIcon="https://res.cloudinary.com/dza7lstvk/image/upload/v1667999308/Medusa%20Docs/UI%20Icons/1ordBC6_ssysel.png" darkIcon="https://res.cloudinary.com/dza7lstvk/image/upload/v1667999326/Medusa%20Docs/UI%20Icons/dSwWYBH_stzgoi.png" alt="three dots" /> icon at its right.
3. Click on Remove User from the dropdown.
4. Confirm removing the user by clicking the “Yes, remove” button in the pop-up.
