docs/content/user-guide/orders/claims.mdx, before:

---
sidebar_position: 8
---

import UiIcon from '@site/src/components/UiIcon';

# Manage Order's Claims

In this document, you’ll learn what claims are, how to create them, and more.

## Overview

If a customer receives a faulty or incorrect item(s) for an order they placed, you can create a claim to either refund or replace the item(s).

When a claim is created, you can choose whether the claim will be resolved through a refund or by replacing the item(s).

---

## Create a Claim

:::caution

If you create a claim of type Refund, a refund is issued to the customer right after the claim is created. Before you can create a claim for an order, you must capture the order’s payment, and create fulfillment in the order for the items included in the claim.

:::

1. Open the order details page.
2. In the Timeline section, click on the <UiIcon lightIcon="https://res.cloudinary.com/dza7lstvk/image/upload/v1667999308/Medusa%20Docs/UI%20Icons/1ordBC6_ssysel.png" darkIcon="https://res.cloudinary.com/dza7lstvk/image/upload/v1667999326/Medusa%20Docs/UI%20Icons/dSwWYBH_stzgoi.png" alt="three dots" /> icon at the top right.
3. Click on Register Claim in the dropdown.
4. In the new window that opens:
    - Choose the items you want to create the claim for. For each item you pick, you must select the reason for the claim:
        - Click on the Select Reason button below the item.
        - Choose the Reason from the options in the Reason field.
        - Optionally add a Note or upload images as part of the reason.
        - Click on the Add button.
    - Choose the Shipping method to use to return the item.
        - You can add a custom price for the shipping method by clicking on the Add custom price button.
        - You can remove the custom price by clicking on the <UiIcon lightIcon="https://res.cloudinary.com/dza7lstvk/image/upload/v1667999273/Medusa%20Docs/UI%20Icons/7hztVhj_mj6mxu.png" darkIcon="https://res.cloudinary.com/dza7lstvk/image/upload/v1667999290/Medusa%20Docs/UI%20Icons/1yp4PNt_vzwnhf.png" alt="trash" /> icon next to the price.
    - Choose whether the type of the claim is “Refund” or “Replace”. If you choose “Replace”:
        - Choose the products you want to send to the customer by clicking Add Product and choosing the product you want to add.
        - You can remove a product from the “items to send” list by clicking on the <UiIcon lightIcon="https://res.cloudinary.com/dza7lstvk/image/upload/v1667999273/Medusa%20Docs/UI%20Icons/7hztVhj_mj6mxu.png" darkIcon="https://res.cloudinary.com/dza7lstvk/image/upload/v1667999290/Medusa%20Docs/UI%20Icons/1yp4PNt_vzwnhf.png" alt="trash" /> icon.
        - If you want to send the items to another address, click on “Ship to a different address” and fill out the shipping address info.
        - Choose the Shipping Method that will be used to deliver the replacement items.
        - If you don’t want the customer to receive an email that a claim has been created, uncheck the “Send notifications” checkbox.
5. Once you’re done, click on the Complete button.

---

## View Claim Details

To view an order’s claim details:

1. Open the order details page.
2. In the Timeline section, find the claim and click on the <UiIcon lightIcon="https://res.cloudinary.com/dza7lstvk/image/upload/v1667999308/Medusa%20Docs/UI%20Icons/1ordBC6_ssysel.png" darkIcon="https://res.cloudinary.com/dza7lstvk/image/upload/v1667999326/Medusa%20Docs/UI%20Icons/dSwWYBH_stzgoi.png" alt="three dots" /> icon at its right.
3. Click on More Details in the dropdown.

---

## Manage a Claim’s Returns

### Receive a Claim’s Return

To mark a claim’s return as received:

1. Open the order details page.
2. In the Timeline section, find the return requested.
3. Click on the Receive Return button.
4. Check or uncheck the items that have been received.
5. Click the Complete button.

### Cancel a Claim’s Return

:::caution

Canceling a return can’t be undone.

:::

To cancel a return of a claim:

1. Open the order details page.
2. In the Timeline section, find the return requested and click on the <UiIcon lightIcon="https://res.cloudinary.com/dza7lstvk/image/upload/v1667999308/Medusa%20Docs/UI%20Icons/1ordBC6_ssysel.png" darkIcon="https://res.cloudinary.com/dza7lstvk/image/upload/v1667999326/Medusa%20Docs/UI%20Icons/dSwWYBH_stzgoi.png" alt="three dots" /> icon.
3. Click on “Cancel return” in the dropdown.

---

## Manage a Claim’s Fulfillments

:::caution

This section only applies if the Claim’s type is Replace.

:::

### Create a Fulfillment for a Claim

You can create fulfillment for items in the claim that you are sending to the customer as a replacement. You can create more than one fulfillment, with each having at least one item.

To create a fulfillment for a claim:

1. Open the order details page.
2. In the Timeline section, find the claim and click on the <UiIcon lightIcon="https://res.cloudinary.com/dza7lstvk/image/upload/v1667999308/Medusa%20Docs/UI%20Icons/1ordBC6_ssysel.png" darkIcon="https://res.cloudinary.com/dza7lstvk/image/upload/v1667999326/Medusa%20Docs/UI%20Icons/dSwWYBH_stzgoi.png" alt="three dots" /> icon.
3. Click on Fulfill Claim in the dropdown.
4. In the window that opens:
    - Choose the items you want to fulfill. You can change the quantity of the items you’re fulfilling using the <UiIcon lightIcon="https://res.cloudinary.com/dza7lstvk/image/upload/v1667999131/Medusa%20Docs/UI%20Icons/1hL8NiW_lqmjcq.png" darkIcon="https://res.cloudinary.com/dza7lstvk/image/upload/v1667999150/Medusa%20Docs/UI%20Icons/8LtkPqW_jyqz5i.png" alt="plus" /> and <UiIcon lightIcon="https://res.cloudinary.com/dza7lstvk/image/upload/v1667999351/Medusa%20Docs/UI%20Icons/EGk9uYD_a7rwhs.png" darkIcon="https://res.cloudinary.com/dza7lstvk/image/upload/v1667999366/Medusa%20Docs/UI%20Icons/XvkBK8p_dzhzfx.png" alt="minus" /> icons.
    - Optionally add under Metadata any additional information that might be necessary for the fulfillment.
    - If you don’t want the customer to receive an email that a fulfillment for the claim items has been created, uncheck the “Send notifications” checkbox.
5. Once you’re done, click on the Complete button.

### Mark a Claim’s Fulfillment Shipped

To mark a claim’s fulfillment as shipped:

1. Open the order details page.
2. Scroll down to the Fulfillment section.
3. Find the fulfillment you want to mark as shipped. A claim’s fulfillment’s title should be prefixed with “Claim fulfillment”.
4. Click on the <UiIcon lightIcon="https://res.cloudinary.com/dza7lstvk/image/upload/v1667999308/Medusa%20Docs/UI%20Icons/1ordBC6_ssysel.png" darkIcon="https://res.cloudinary.com/dza7lstvk/image/upload/v1667999326/Medusa%20Docs/UI%20Icons/dSwWYBH_stzgoi.png" alt="three dots" /> icon next to it.
5. Click on Mark Shipped in the dropdown.
6. In the new window that opens:
    - Enter a tracking number for the shipment.
    - If you have more than one tracking number, click on the “Add Additional Tracking Number” to add more numbers.
    - If you don’t want the customer to receive an email that the fulfillment has been shipped, uncheck the “Send notifications” checkbox.
7. Once you’re done, click the Complete button.

Shipment details can be seen in the Timeline section.

### Cancel a Claim’s Fulfillment

:::caution

If you cancel a fulfillment, it can’t be reverted. Only a fulfillment that hasn’t been marked as shipped can be canceled.

:::

To cancel a claim’s fulfillment:

1. Open the order details page.
2. Scroll down to the Fulfillment section.
3. Find the fulfillment you want to cancel. A claim’s fulfillment’s title should be prefixed with “Claim fulfillment”.
4. Click on the <UiIcon lightIcon="https://res.cloudinary.com/dza7lstvk/image/upload/v1667999308/Medusa%20Docs/UI%20Icons/1ordBC6_ssysel.png" darkIcon="https://res.cloudinary.com/dza7lstvk/image/upload/v1667999326/Medusa%20Docs/UI%20Icons/dSwWYBH_stzgoi.png" alt="three dots" /> icon next to it.
5. Click on Cancel Fulfillment in the dropdown.
6. Confirm canceling the fulfillment by clicking the “Yes, confirm” button in the pop-up.

---

## Cancel a Claim

### For Refund Claims

A claim of type Refund can be canceled by just [canceling the return of the claim](#cancel-a-claims-return). However, the refund can not be reverted.

### For Replace Claims

:::caution

Canceling a claim can’t be undone. The [return of the claim must be canceled](#cancel-a-claims-return) before the claim itself is canceled.

:::

To cancel a claim of type Replace:

1. Open the order details page.
2. In the Timeline section, find the claim and click on the <UiIcon lightIcon="https://res.cloudinary.com/dza7lstvk/image/upload/v1667999308/Medusa%20Docs/UI%20Icons/1ordBC6_ssysel.png" darkIcon="https://res.cloudinary.com/dza7lstvk/image/upload/v1667999326/Medusa%20Docs/UI%20Icons/dSwWYBH_stzgoi.png" alt="three dots" /> icon.
3. Click on Cancel Claim in the dropdown.
4. Confirm canceling the fulfillment by clicking the “Yes, remove” button in the pop-up.

Commit message:

docs: improved SEO of documentation (#3117)
* docs: added description to documentation pages

* docs: added more descriptions

* docs: finished improving meta description

* docs: added searchbox structured data

* docs: added breadcrumbs structured data

* docs: added how to structured data

* docs: improved 404 page

* docs: added how-to frontmatter option

docs/content/user-guide/orders/claims.mdx, after:

---
sidebar_position: 8
description: 'This user guide explains how to manage order claims on the Medusa Admin. Learn how to create claims, manage their returns and fulfillments, and more.'
addHowToData: true
---

import UiIcon from '@site/src/components/UiIcon';

# Manage Order's Claims

In this document, you’ll learn what claims are, how to create them, and more.

## Overview

If a customer receives a faulty or incorrect item(s) for an order they placed, you can create a claim to either refund or replace the item(s).

When a claim is created, you can choose whether the claim will be resolved through a refund or by replacing the item(s).

---

## Create a Claim

:::caution

If you create a claim of type Refund, a refund is issued to the customer right after the claim is created. Before you can create a claim for an order, you must capture the order’s payment, and create fulfillment in the order for the items included in the claim.

:::

1. Open the order details page.
2. In the Timeline section, click on the <UiIcon lightIcon="https://res.cloudinary.com/dza7lstvk/image/upload/v1667999308/Medusa%20Docs/UI%20Icons/1ordBC6_ssysel.png" darkIcon="https://res.cloudinary.com/dza7lstvk/image/upload/v1667999326/Medusa%20Docs/UI%20Icons/dSwWYBH_stzgoi.png" alt="three dots" /> icon at the top right.
3. Click on Register Claim in the dropdown.
4. In the new window that opens:
    - Choose the items you want to create the claim for. For each item you pick, you must select the reason for the claim:
        - Click on the Select Reason button below the item.
        - Choose the Reason from the options in the Reason field.
        - Optionally add a Note or upload images as part of the reason.
        - Click on the Add button.
    - Choose the Shipping method to use to return the item.
        - You can add a custom price for the shipping method by clicking on the Add custom price button.
        - You can remove the custom price by clicking on the <UiIcon lightIcon="https://res.cloudinary.com/dza7lstvk/image/upload/v1667999273/Medusa%20Docs/UI%20Icons/7hztVhj_mj6mxu.png" darkIcon="https://res.cloudinary.com/dza7lstvk/image/upload/v1667999290/Medusa%20Docs/UI%20Icons/1yp4PNt_vzwnhf.png" alt="trash" /> icon next to the price.
    - Choose whether the type of the claim is “Refund” or “Replace”. If you choose “Replace”:
        - Choose the products you want to send to the customer by clicking Add Product and choosing the product you want to add.
        - You can remove a product from the “items to send” list by clicking on the <UiIcon lightIcon="https://res.cloudinary.com/dza7lstvk/image/upload/v1667999273/Medusa%20Docs/UI%20Icons/7hztVhj_mj6mxu.png" darkIcon="https://res.cloudinary.com/dza7lstvk/image/upload/v1667999290/Medusa%20Docs/UI%20Icons/1yp4PNt_vzwnhf.png" alt="trash" /> icon.
        - If you want to send the items to another address, click on “Ship to a different address” and fill out the shipping address info.
        - Choose the Shipping Method that will be used to deliver the replacement items.
        - If you don’t want the customer to receive an email that a claim has been created, uncheck the “Send notifications” checkbox.
5. Once you’re done, click on the Complete button.

---

## View Claim Details

To view an order’s claim details:

1. Open the order details page.
2. In the Timeline section, find the claim and click on the <UiIcon lightIcon="https://res.cloudinary.com/dza7lstvk/image/upload/v1667999308/Medusa%20Docs/UI%20Icons/1ordBC6_ssysel.png" darkIcon="https://res.cloudinary.com/dza7lstvk/image/upload/v1667999326/Medusa%20Docs/UI%20Icons/dSwWYBH_stzgoi.png" alt="three dots" /> icon at its right.
3. Click on More Details in the dropdown.

---

## Manage a Claim’s Returns

### Receive a Claim’s Return

To mark a claim’s return as received:

1. Open the order details page.
2. In the Timeline section, find the return requested.
3. Click on the Receive Return button.
4. Check or uncheck the items that have been received.
5. Click the Complete button.

### Cancel a Claim’s Return

:::caution

Canceling a return can’t be undone.

:::

To cancel a return of a claim:

1. Open the order details page.
2. In the Timeline section, find the return requested and click on the <UiIcon lightIcon="https://res.cloudinary.com/dza7lstvk/image/upload/v1667999308/Medusa%20Docs/UI%20Icons/1ordBC6_ssysel.png" darkIcon="https://res.cloudinary.com/dza7lstvk/image/upload/v1667999326/Medusa%20Docs/UI%20Icons/dSwWYBH_stzgoi.png" alt="three dots" /> icon.
3. Click on “Cancel return” in the dropdown.

---

## Manage a Claim’s Fulfillments

:::caution

This section only applies if the Claim’s type is Replace.

:::

### Create a Fulfillment for a Claim

You can create fulfillment for items in the claim that you are sending to the customer as a replacement. You can create more than one fulfillment, with each having at least one item.

To create a fulfillment for a claim:

1. Open the order details page.
2. In the Timeline section, find the claim and click on the <UiIcon lightIcon="https://res.cloudinary.com/dza7lstvk/image/upload/v1667999308/Medusa%20Docs/UI%20Icons/1ordBC6_ssysel.png" darkIcon="https://res.cloudinary.com/dza7lstvk/image/upload/v1667999326/Medusa%20Docs/UI%20Icons/dSwWYBH_stzgoi.png" alt="three dots" /> icon.
3. Click on Fulfill Claim in the dropdown.
4. In the window that opens:
    - Choose the items you want to fulfill. You can change the quantity of the items you’re fulfilling using the <UiIcon lightIcon="https://res.cloudinary.com/dza7lstvk/image/upload/v1667999131/Medusa%20Docs/UI%20Icons/1hL8NiW_lqmjcq.png" darkIcon="https://res.cloudinary.com/dza7lstvk/image/upload/v1667999150/Medusa%20Docs/UI%20Icons/8LtkPqW_jyqz5i.png" alt="plus" /> and <UiIcon lightIcon="https://res.cloudinary.com/dza7lstvk/image/upload/v1667999351/Medusa%20Docs/UI%20Icons/EGk9uYD_a7rwhs.png" darkIcon="https://res.cloudinary.com/dza7lstvk/image/upload/v1667999366/Medusa%20Docs/UI%20Icons/XvkBK8p_dzhzfx.png" alt="minus" /> icons.
    - Optionally add under Metadata any additional information that might be necessary for the fulfillment.
    - If you don’t want the customer to receive an email that a fulfillment for the claim items has been created, uncheck the “Send notifications” checkbox.
5. Once you’re done, click on the Complete button.

### Mark a Claim’s Fulfillment Shipped

To mark a claim’s fulfillment as shipped:

1. Open the order details page.
2. Scroll down to the Fulfillment section.
3. Find the fulfillment you want to mark as shipped. A claim’s fulfillment’s title should be prefixed with “Claim fulfillment”.
4. Click on the <UiIcon lightIcon="https://res.cloudinary.com/dza7lstvk/image/upload/v1667999308/Medusa%20Docs/UI%20Icons/1ordBC6_ssysel.png" darkIcon="https://res.cloudinary.com/dza7lstvk/image/upload/v1667999326/Medusa%20Docs/UI%20Icons/dSwWYBH_stzgoi.png" alt="three dots" /> icon next to it.
5. Click on Mark Shipped in the dropdown.
6. In the new window that opens:
    - Enter a tracking number for the shipment.
    - If you have more than one tracking number, click on the “Add Additional Tracking Number” to add more numbers.
    - If you don’t want the customer to receive an email that the fulfillment has been shipped, uncheck the “Send notifications” checkbox.
7. Once you’re done, click the Complete button.

Shipment details can be seen in the Timeline section.

### Cancel a Claim’s Fulfillment

:::caution

If you cancel a fulfillment, it can’t be reverted. Only a fulfillment that hasn’t been marked as shipped can be canceled.

:::

To cancel a claim’s fulfillment:

1. Open the order details page.
2. Scroll down to the Fulfillment section.
3. Find the fulfillment you want to cancel. A claim’s fulfillment’s title should be prefixed with “Claim fulfillment”.
4. Click on the <UiIcon lightIcon="https://res.cloudinary.com/dza7lstvk/image/upload/v1667999308/Medusa%20Docs/UI%20Icons/1ordBC6_ssysel.png" darkIcon="https://res.cloudinary.com/dza7lstvk/image/upload/v1667999326/Medusa%20Docs/UI%20Icons/dSwWYBH_stzgoi.png" alt="three dots" /> icon next to it.
5. Click on Cancel Fulfillment in the dropdown.
6. Confirm canceling the fulfillment by clicking the “Yes, confirm” button in the pop-up.

---

## Cancel a Claim

### For Refund Claims

A claim of type Refund can be canceled by just [canceling the return of the claim](#cancel-a-claims-return). However, the refund can not be reverted.

### For Replace Claims

:::caution

Canceling a claim can’t be undone. The [return of the claim must be canceled](#cancel-a-claims-return) before the claim itself is canceled.

:::

To cancel a claim of type Replace:

1. Open the order details page.
2. In the Timeline section, find the claim and click on the <UiIcon lightIcon="https://res.cloudinary.com/dza7lstvk/image/upload/v1667999308/Medusa%20Docs/UI%20Icons/1ordBC6_ssysel.png" darkIcon="https://res.cloudinary.com/dza7lstvk/image/upload/v1667999326/Medusa%20Docs/UI%20Icons/dSwWYBH_stzgoi.png" alt="three dots" /> icon.
3. Click on Cancel Claim in the dropdown.
4. Confirm canceling the fulfillment by clicking the “Yes, remove” button in the pop-up.
