docs/content/user-guide/orders/export.mdx, before:

---
sidebar_position: 9
---

import UiIcon from '@site/src/components/UiIcon';

# Export Orders

In this document, you’ll learn how to export all orders in your Medusa store.

## Overview

When you export your orders, you can obtain a list of your orders and their details in a CSV file. This can be useful if you want to migrate from one Medusa server to another, or if you need the CSV file for other purposes.

---

## Export List of Orders

To export orders:

1. Go to Orders page.
2. Click on Export Orders at the top right.
3. Click Export in the window that opens.
4. Click on the <UiIcon lightIcon="https://res.cloudinary.com/dza7lstvk/image/upload/v1667999016/Medusa%20Docs/UI%20Icons/mWhpxNX_xteuos.png" darkIcon="https://res.cloudinary.com/dza7lstvk/image/upload/v1667999044/Medusa%20Docs/UI%20Icons/tE8LOXk_puyrib.png" alt="bell" /> icon at the top right of the page.
5. You should see your new export loading.
6. Once the export is ready, click on the Download button.

:::note

If you face any errors or difficulties, please contact your technical support team as this could be an issue in the storage integration used.

:::

---

## Cancel an Order Export

:::info

You can only cancel an unfinished order export.

:::

To cancel an order export:

1. Click on the <UiIcon lightIcon="https://res.cloudinary.com/dza7lstvk/image/upload/v1667999016/Medusa%20Docs/UI%20Icons/mWhpxNX_xteuos.png" darkIcon="https://res.cloudinary.com/dza7lstvk/image/upload/v1667999044/Medusa%20Docs/UI%20Icons/tE8LOXk_puyrib.png" alt="bell" /> icon at the top right of the page.
2. Find the export you want to cancel.
3. Click on the cancel button.

---

## Delete an Order Export

:::info

You can only delete a finished order export.

:::

To delete an order export:

1. Click on the <UiIcon lightIcon="https://res.cloudinary.com/dza7lstvk/image/upload/v1667999016/Medusa%20Docs/UI%20Icons/mWhpxNX_xteuos.png" darkIcon="https://res.cloudinary.com/dza7lstvk/image/upload/v1667999044/Medusa%20Docs/UI%20Icons/tE8LOXk_puyrib.png" alt="bell" /> icon at the top right of the page.
2. Find the export you want to delete.
3. Click on the Delete button.

Commit message:

docs: improved SEO of documentation (#3117)
* docs: added description to documentation pages

* docs: added more descriptions

* docs: finished improving meta description

* docs: added searchbox structured data

* docs: added breadcrumbs structured data

* docs: added how to structured data

* docs: improved 404 page

* docs: added how-to frontmatter option

docs/content/user-guide/orders/export.mdx, after:

---
sidebar_position: 9
description: 'This user guide explains how to export a list of orders on the Medusa admin.'
addHowToData: true
---

import UiIcon from '@site/src/components/UiIcon';

# Export Orders

In this document, you’ll learn how to export all orders in your Medusa store.

## Overview

When you export your orders, you can obtain a list of your orders and their details in a CSV file. This can be useful if you want to migrate from one Medusa server to another, or if you need the CSV file for other purposes.

---

## Export List of Orders

To export orders:

1. Go to Orders page.
2. Click on Export Orders at the top right.
3. Click Export in the window that opens.
4. Click on the <UiIcon lightIcon="https://res.cloudinary.com/dza7lstvk/image/upload/v1667999016/Medusa%20Docs/UI%20Icons/mWhpxNX_xteuos.png" darkIcon="https://res.cloudinary.com/dza7lstvk/image/upload/v1667999044/Medusa%20Docs/UI%20Icons/tE8LOXk_puyrib.png" alt="bell" /> icon at the top right of the page.
5. You should see your new export loading.
6. Once the export is ready, click on the Download button.

:::note

If you face any errors or difficulties, please contact your technical support team as this could be an issue in the storage integration used.

:::

---

## Cancel an Order Export

:::info

You can only cancel an unfinished order export.

:::

To cancel an order export:

1. Click on the <UiIcon lightIcon="https://res.cloudinary.com/dza7lstvk/image/upload/v1667999016/Medusa%20Docs/UI%20Icons/mWhpxNX_xteuos.png" darkIcon="https://res.cloudinary.com/dza7lstvk/image/upload/v1667999044/Medusa%20Docs/UI%20Icons/tE8LOXk_puyrib.png" alt="bell" /> icon at the top right of the page.
2. Find the export you want to cancel.
3. Click on the cancel button.

---

## Delete an Order Export

:::info

You can only delete a finished order export.

:::

To delete an order export:

1. Click on the <UiIcon lightIcon="https://res.cloudinary.com/dza7lstvk/image/upload/v1667999016/Medusa%20Docs/UI%20Icons/mWhpxNX_xteuos.png" darkIcon="https://res.cloudinary.com/dza7lstvk/image/upload/v1667999044/Medusa%20Docs/UI%20Icons/tE8LOXk_puyrib.png" alt="bell" /> icon at the top right of the page.
2. Find the export you want to delete.
3. Click on the Delete button.
