docs/content/user-guide/orders/index.md, before:

---
sidebar_position: 1
sidebar_label: Overview
---

# Orders Overview

In this document, you’ll get an overview of the orders listing page and everything you can do with it.

## Overview

When customers buy one or more products, their order appears on the Orders page. You can view an order’s information, capture payment, create shipments and fulfillments, register returns or exchanges of the order, and more.

The Orders domain also contains draft orders. Draft orders are orders that you create from the Medusa admin. After you fill out the order and mark it paid, it’s transformed into an order that appears as part of the Orders list.

---

## View List of Orders

You can view the list of available orders in your ecommerce store by clicking on Orders from the sidebar menu.

In the list, you can see order details such as the ID, date, customer, fulfillment and payment status, total, and the country of the shipping address.

---

## View List of Draft Orders

You can view the list of draft orders on the Orders page by clicking on the grey Drafts headline next to the Orders headline.

In the list, you can see order details such as ID, the ID of the order the draft order belongs to, the date, the customer, and the status of the draft order.

---

## Learn More About Orders

- [Manage Order Details](./manage.mdx)
- [Manage Order’s Payment](./payments.md)
- [Manage Order’s Fulfillment](./fulfillments.mdx)
- [Manage Draft Orders](./drafts.mdx)
- [Manage Order Returns](./returns.mdx)
- [Manage Order Claims](./claims.mdx)
- [Manage Order Exchanges](./exchange.mdx)
- [Export Orders](./export.mdx)

Commit message:

docs: improved SEO of documentation (#3117)
* docs: added description to documentation pages

* docs: added more descriptions

* docs: finished improving meta description

* docs: added searchbox structured data

* docs: added breadcrumbs structured data

* docs: added how to structured data

* docs: improved 404 page

* docs: added how-to frontmatter option

docs/content/user-guide/orders/index.md, after:

---
sidebar_position: 1
sidebar_label: Overview
description: 'Medusa Admin allows merchants to manage orders. Merchants can view order information, capture payment, create shipments and fulfillments, and more.'
---

# Orders Overview

In this document, you’ll get an overview of the orders listing page and everything you can do with it.

## Overview

When customers buy one or more products, their order appears on the Orders page. You can view an order’s information, capture payment, create shipments and fulfillments, register returns or exchanges of the order, and more.

The Orders domain also contains draft orders. Draft orders are orders that you create from the Medusa admin. After you fill out the order and mark it paid, it’s transformed into an order that appears as part of the Orders list.

---

## View List of Orders

You can view the list of available orders in your ecommerce store by clicking on Orders from the sidebar menu.

In the list, you can see order details such as the ID, date, customer, fulfillment and payment status, total, and the country of the shipping address.

---

## View List of Draft Orders

You can view the list of draft orders on the Orders page by clicking on the grey Drafts headline next to the Orders headline.

In the list, you can see order details such as ID, the ID of the order the draft order belongs to, the date, the customer, and the status of the draft order.

---

## Learn More About Orders

- [Manage Order Details](./manage.mdx)
- [Manage Order’s Payment](./payments.md)
- [Manage Order’s Fulfillment](./fulfillments.mdx)
- [Manage Draft Orders](./drafts.mdx)
- [Manage Order Returns](./returns.mdx)
- [Manage Order Claims](./claims.mdx)
- [Manage Order Exchanges](./exchange.mdx)
- [Export Orders](./export.mdx)
