docs/content/user-guide/orders/manage.mdx, before:

---
sidebar_position: 2
sidebar_label: Manage Details
---

import UiIcon from '@site/src/components/UiIcon';

# Manage Order Details

In this document, you’ll learn how to find an order’s details page, what information you can find on the order details page, and how to manage some of the order’s details.

## Open Order’s Details

To open an order’s details:

1. Go to Orders.
2. Select one of the orders.

This opens the order’s details page.

---

## Sections of the Order Details Page

### Order Summary

The first section of the page shows the summary of the order, including its current status, date created, email, and payment method.

### Timeline

This section of the order details page shows a summary of the order’s history. This includes updates to the order’s status, requests for return or exchange, notes, and more.

### Summary

This section includes the summary of the items the customer purchased as well as totals related to taxes, shipping, and more.

### Payment

This section includes details related to the order’s payments and allows you to capture the authorized payment.

### Fulfillment

This section includes details related to the shipping method and fulfillment and allows you to create fulfillment.

### Customer

This section includes the customer’s details, including their shipping address.

---

## Edit the Shipping Address

To edit the shipping address used for an order:

1. Open the order details page.
2. Scroll down to the Customer section.
3. Click on the <UiIcon lightIcon="https://res.cloudinary.com/dza7lstvk/image/upload/v1667999308/Medusa%20Docs/UI%20Icons/1ordBC6_ssysel.png" darkIcon="https://res.cloudinary.com/dza7lstvk/image/upload/v1667999326/Medusa%20Docs/UI%20Icons/dSwWYBH_stzgoi.png" alt="three dots" /> icon.
4. Click on Edit Shipping Address from the dropdown.
5. This opens a new window to edit the shipping address.
6. Once you’re done, click on the Save button.

---

## Edit Email Address

To edit the email address associated with an order:

1. Open the order details page.
2. Scroll down to the Customer section.
3. Click on the <UiIcon lightIcon="https://res.cloudinary.com/dza7lstvk/image/upload/v1667999308/Medusa%20Docs/UI%20Icons/1ordBC6_ssysel.png" darkIcon="https://res.cloudinary.com/dza7lstvk/image/upload/v1667999326/Medusa%20Docs/UI%20Icons/dSwWYBH_stzgoi.png" alt="three dots" /> icon.
4. Click on Edit Email Address from the dropdown.
5. This opens a new window to edit the email address.
6. Once you’re done, click on the Save button.

---

## Add a Note

To add a note to an order:

1. Open the order details page.
2. In the Timeline section, enter the note in the text input. You can also choose emojis by clicking the <UiIcon lightIcon="https://res.cloudinary.com/dza7lstvk/image/upload/v1667999389/Medusa%20Docs/UI%20Icons/UwA7Ljp_mlt58a.png" darkIcon="https://res.cloudinary.com/dza7lstvk/image/upload/v1667999407/Medusa%20Docs/UI%20Icons/9lcr16b_e5gcqz.png" alt="emoji" /> icon.
3. Once done, click on the <UiIcon lightIcon="https://res.cloudinary.com/dza7lstvk/image/upload/v1667999420/Medusa%20Docs/UI%20Icons/hH4pKe3_ltdg5o.png" darkIcon="https://res.cloudinary.com/dza7lstvk/image/upload/v1667999435/Medusa%20Docs/UI%20Icons/QlvPezL_zsyikc.png" alt="send" /> icon.

The note will be added and can be seen in the timeline.

---

## Delete a Note

:::caution

Deleted notes can’t be retrieved.

:::

To delete a note in an order:

1. Open the order details page.
2. In the Timeline section, find the note you want to delete from the timeline.
3. Click on the <UiIcon lightIcon="https://res.cloudinary.com/dza7lstvk/image/upload/v1667999308/Medusa%20Docs/UI%20Icons/1ordBC6_ssysel.png" darkIcon="https://res.cloudinary.com/dza7lstvk/image/upload/v1667999326/Medusa%20Docs/UI%20Icons/dSwWYBH_stzgoi.png" alt="three dots" /> icon next to the note.
4. Click on Delete from the dropdown.
5. Confirm deleting the note by clicking the “Yes, delete” button in the pop-up.

---

## Cancel an Order

:::warning

Once an order is canceled it can’t be undone.

:::

To cancel an order:

1. Open the order details page.
2. In the first section showing the order’s number, click on the <UiIcon lightIcon="https://res.cloudinary.com/dza7lstvk/image/upload/v1667999308/Medusa%20Docs/UI%20Icons/1ordBC6_ssysel.png" darkIcon="https://res.cloudinary.com/dza7lstvk/image/upload/v1667999326/Medusa%20Docs/UI%20Icons/dSwWYBH_stzgoi.png" alt="three dots" /> at the top right.
3. Click on Cancel Order from the dropdown.
4. Confirm canceling the order by clicking the “Yes, confirm” button in the pop-up.

Commit message:

docs: improved SEO of documentation (#3117)
* docs: added description to documentation pages

* docs: added more descriptions

* docs: finished improving meta description

* docs: added searchbox structured data

* docs: added breadcrumbs structured data

* docs: added how to structured data

* docs: improved 404 page

* docs: added how-to frontmatter option

docs/content/user-guide/orders/manage.mdx, after:

---
sidebar_position: 2
sidebar_label: Manage Details
description: 'Learn in this user guide how to manage orders on the Medusa Admin. Learn how to find the order details page, what information can be found on that page, and how to manage the order details such as shipping address or email.'
addHowToData: true
---

import UiIcon from '@site/src/components/UiIcon';

# Manage Order Details

In this document, you’ll learn how to find an order’s details page, what information you can find on the order details page, and how to manage some of the order’s details.

## Open Order’s Details

To open an order’s details:

1. Go to Orders.
2. Select one of the orders.

This opens the order’s details page.

---

## Sections of the Order Details Page

### Order Summary

The first section of the page shows the summary of the order, including its current status, date created, email, and payment method.

### Timeline

This section of the order details page shows a summary of the order’s history. This includes updates to the order’s status, requests for return or exchange, notes, and more.

### Summary

This section includes the summary of the items the customer purchased as well as totals related to taxes, shipping, and more.

### Payment

This section includes details related to the order’s payments and allows you to capture the authorized payment.

### Fulfillment

This section includes details related to the shipping method and fulfillment and allows you to create fulfillment.

### Customer

This section includes the customer’s details, including their shipping address.

---

## Edit the Shipping Address

To edit the shipping address used for an order:

1. Open the order details page.
2. Scroll down to the Customer section.
3. Click on the <UiIcon lightIcon="https://res.cloudinary.com/dza7lstvk/image/upload/v1667999308/Medusa%20Docs/UI%20Icons/1ordBC6_ssysel.png" darkIcon="https://res.cloudinary.com/dza7lstvk/image/upload/v1667999326/Medusa%20Docs/UI%20Icons/dSwWYBH_stzgoi.png" alt="three dots" /> icon.
4. Click on Edit Shipping Address from the dropdown.
5. This opens a new window to edit the shipping address.
6. Once you’re done, click on the Save button.

---

## Edit Email Address

To edit the email address associated with an order:

1. Open the order details page.
2. Scroll down to the Customer section.
3. Click on the <UiIcon lightIcon="https://res.cloudinary.com/dza7lstvk/image/upload/v1667999308/Medusa%20Docs/UI%20Icons/1ordBC6_ssysel.png" darkIcon="https://res.cloudinary.com/dza7lstvk/image/upload/v1667999326/Medusa%20Docs/UI%20Icons/dSwWYBH_stzgoi.png" alt="three dots" /> icon.
4. Click on Edit Email Address from the dropdown.
5. This opens a new window to edit the email address.
6. Once you’re done, click on the Save button.

---

## Add a Note

To add a note to an order:

1. Open the order details page.
2. In the Timeline section, enter the note in the text input. You can also choose emojis by clicking the <UiIcon lightIcon="https://res.cloudinary.com/dza7lstvk/image/upload/v1667999389/Medusa%20Docs/UI%20Icons/UwA7Ljp_mlt58a.png" darkIcon="https://res.cloudinary.com/dza7lstvk/image/upload/v1667999407/Medusa%20Docs/UI%20Icons/9lcr16b_e5gcqz.png" alt="emoji" /> icon.
3. Once done, click on the <UiIcon lightIcon="https://res.cloudinary.com/dza7lstvk/image/upload/v1667999420/Medusa%20Docs/UI%20Icons/hH4pKe3_ltdg5o.png" darkIcon="https://res.cloudinary.com/dza7lstvk/image/upload/v1667999435/Medusa%20Docs/UI%20Icons/QlvPezL_zsyikc.png" alt="send" /> icon.

The note will be added and can be seen in the timeline.

---

## Delete a Note

:::caution

Deleted notes can’t be retrieved.

:::

To delete a note in an order:

1. Open the order details page.
2. In the Timeline section, find the note you want to delete from the timeline.
3. Click on the <UiIcon lightIcon="https://res.cloudinary.com/dza7lstvk/image/upload/v1667999308/Medusa%20Docs/UI%20Icons/1ordBC6_ssysel.png" darkIcon="https://res.cloudinary.com/dza7lstvk/image/upload/v1667999326/Medusa%20Docs/UI%20Icons/dSwWYBH_stzgoi.png" alt="three dots" /> icon next to the note.
4. Click on Delete from the dropdown.
5. Confirm deleting the note by clicking the “Yes, delete” button in the pop-up.

---

## Cancel an Order

:::warning

Once an order is canceled it can’t be undone.

:::

To cancel an order:

1. Open the order details page.
2. In the first section showing the order’s number, click on the <UiIcon lightIcon="https://res.cloudinary.com/dza7lstvk/image/upload/v1667999308/Medusa%20Docs/UI%20Icons/1ordBC6_ssysel.png" darkIcon="https://res.cloudinary.com/dza7lstvk/image/upload/v1667999326/Medusa%20Docs/UI%20Icons/dSwWYBH_stzgoi.png" alt="three dots" /> at the top right.
3. Click on Cancel Order from the dropdown.
4. Confirm canceling the order by clicking the “Yes, confirm” button in the pop-up.
