docs/content/user-guide/orders/returns.mdx, before:

---
sidebar_position: 6
sidebar_label: Manage Returns
---

import UiIcon from '@site/src/components/UiIcon';

# Manage Order’s Returns

In this document, you’ll learn more about order returns, how to request a return, and more.

## Overview

Part of the order management system that Medusa provides is automating and managing order returns.

There are two ways of returns for an order to be requested:

1. The customer requests a return for an order through the storefront, which the store operator can view on the admin.
2. The store operator requests to receive a return from the customer. The customer can be informed about this through an email.

After a return is requested, the store operator can choose to either cancel the return or mark it as received. When a return is marked as received, a refund is issued to the customer.

---

## Find Return Requests of an Order

To find return requests of an order:

1. Open the order details page.
2. On the Timeline section, you’ll find any returns requested, whether by store operators or by customers.

---

## Request a Return for an Order

To request a return for an order:

1. Open the order details page.
2. In the Timeline section, click on the <UiIcon lightIcon="https://res.cloudinary.com/dza7lstvk/image/upload/v1667999308/Medusa%20Docs/UI%20Icons/1ordBC6_ssysel.png" darkIcon="https://res.cloudinary.com/dza7lstvk/image/upload/v1667999326/Medusa%20Docs/UI%20Icons/dSwWYBH_stzgoi.png" alt="three dots" /> icon at the top right.
3. Click on Request Return in the dropdown.
4. In the new window that opens:
    - Choose the items in the order that you want to request the return.
    - For each item that you choose, click on the Select Reason below that item.
        - Choose a [Return Reason](../settings/return-reasons.mdx#add-return-reason), optionally enter a Note, then click the Add button.
    - Select a shipping method you want to use for this return.
        - If you want to change the default price of the shipping method, click on the “Add custom price” button and enter the price you want to use.
        - If you want to remove the custom price, you can click on the <UiIcon lightIcon="https://res.cloudinary.com/dza7lstvk/image/upload/v1667999273/Medusa%20Docs/UI%20Icons/7hztVhj_mj6mxu.png" darkIcon="https://res.cloudinary.com/dza7lstvk/image/upload/v1667999290/Medusa%20Docs/UI%20Icons/1yp4PNt_vzwnhf.png" alt="trash" /> icon.
    - If you don’t want the customer to receive an email that a return has been requested, uncheck the “Send notifications” checkbox.
5. Once done, click on the Submit button.

---

## Receive Return

:::caution

Once the return is marked as received, a refund will be issued to the customer. A return can only be marked as “received” if the payment of the order or the items chosen in the return is captured.

:::

To mark a return as received:

1. Open the order details page.
2. In the Timeline section, find the return requested.
3. Click on the Receive Return button.
4. Check or uncheck the items that have been received.
5. Click the Complete button.

---

## Cancel a Return

:::danger

If a return is canceled it can’t be undone. A return can only be canceled if it hasn’t been marked as received.

:::

To cancel a return:

1. Open the order details page.
2. In the Timeline section, find the return requested and click on the <UiIcon lightIcon="https://res.cloudinary.com/dza7lstvk/image/upload/v1667999308/Medusa%20Docs/UI%20Icons/1ordBC6_ssysel.png" darkIcon="https://res.cloudinary.com/dza7lstvk/image/upload/v1667999326/Medusa%20Docs/UI%20Icons/dSwWYBH_stzgoi.png" alt="three dots" /> icon.
3. Click on “Cancel return” in the dropdown.

Commit message:

docs: improved SEO of documentation (#3117)
* docs: added description to documentation pages

* docs: added more descriptions

* docs: finished improving meta description

* docs: added searchbox structured data

* docs: added breadcrumbs structured data

* docs: added how to structured data

* docs: improved 404 page

* docs: added how-to frontmatter option

docs/content/user-guide/orders/returns.mdx, after:

---
sidebar_position: 6
sidebar_label: Manage Returns
description: 'This user guide explains how to manage order returns on the Medusa Admin. Learn how to request a return for an order, mark a return as received, and cancel a return.'
addHowToData: true
---

import UiIcon from '@site/src/components/UiIcon';

# Manage Order’s Returns

In this document, you’ll learn more about order returns, how to request a return, and more.

## Overview

Part of the order management system that Medusa provides is automating and managing order returns.

There are two ways of returns for an order to be requested:

1. The customer requests a return for an order through the storefront, which the store operator can view on the admin.
2. The store operator requests to receive a return from the customer. The customer can be informed about this through an email.

After a return is requested, the store operator can choose to either cancel the return or mark it as received. When a return is marked as received, a refund is issued to the customer.

---

## Find Return Requests of an Order

To find return requests of an order:

1. Open the order details page.
2. On the Timeline section, you’ll find any returns requested, whether by store operators or by customers.

---

## Request a Return for an Order

To request a return for an order:

1. Open the order details page.
2. In the Timeline section, click on the <UiIcon lightIcon="https://res.cloudinary.com/dza7lstvk/image/upload/v1667999308/Medusa%20Docs/UI%20Icons/1ordBC6_ssysel.png" darkIcon="https://res.cloudinary.com/dza7lstvk/image/upload/v1667999326/Medusa%20Docs/UI%20Icons/dSwWYBH_stzgoi.png" alt="three dots" /> icon at the top right.
3. Click on Request Return in the dropdown.
4. In the new window that opens:
    - Choose the items in the order that you want to request the return.
    - For each item that you choose, click on the Select Reason below that item.
        - Choose a [Return Reason](../settings/return-reasons.mdx#add-return-reason), optionally enter a Note, then click the Add button.
    - Select a shipping method you want to use for this return.
        - If you want to change the default price of the shipping method, click on the “Add custom price” button and enter the price you want to use.
        - If you want to remove the custom price, you can click on the <UiIcon lightIcon="https://res.cloudinary.com/dza7lstvk/image/upload/v1667999273/Medusa%20Docs/UI%20Icons/7hztVhj_mj6mxu.png" darkIcon="https://res.cloudinary.com/dza7lstvk/image/upload/v1667999290/Medusa%20Docs/UI%20Icons/1yp4PNt_vzwnhf.png" alt="trash" /> icon.
    - If you don’t want the customer to receive an email that a return has been requested, uncheck the “Send notifications” checkbox.
5. Once done, click on the Submit button.

---

## Receive Return

:::caution

Once the return is marked as received, a refund will be issued to the customer. A return can only be marked as “received” if the payment of the order or the items chosen in the return is captured.

:::

To mark a return as received:

1. Open the order details page.
2. In the Timeline section, find the return requested.
3. Click on the Receive Return button.
4. Check or uncheck the items that have been received.
5. Click the Complete button.

---

## Cancel a Return

:::danger

If a return is canceled it can’t be undone. A return can only be canceled if it hasn’t been marked as received.

:::

To cancel a return:

1. Open the order details page.
2. In the Timeline section, find the return requested and click on the <UiIcon lightIcon="https://res.cloudinary.com/dza7lstvk/image/upload/v1667999308/Medusa%20Docs/UI%20Icons/1ordBC6_ssysel.png" darkIcon="https://res.cloudinary.com/dza7lstvk/image/upload/v1667999326/Medusa%20Docs/UI%20Icons/dSwWYBH_stzgoi.png" alt="three dots" /> icon.
3. Click on “Cancel return” in the dropdown.
