docs/content/user-guide/settings/return-reasons.mdx, before:

---
sidebar_position: 3
---

import UiIcon from '@site/src/components/UiIcon';

# Manage Return Reasons

In this document, you’ll learn how to add, edit, and remove return reasons.

## Overview

Return reasons are used when issuing returns or exchanges of orders. When you want to request an exchange or return of an item in an order, you must specify the reason for that return.

Return reasons are custom and are created by merchants. For example, you can create the return reason “damaged”, then use it when you want to request a return for an item in an order because it has been damaged.

:::note

Creating at least one return reason is required before you can work with order returns and exchanges.

:::

---

## Add Return Reason

To add a return reason:

1. Go to Settings → Return Reasons.
2. Click on the “Add reason” button in the Return Reasons section.
3. In the new window:
    1. You are required to enter a value and a label for the return reason. The value is for internal use and must not include spaces. The label is what the customer will see in their order returns or exchanges.
    2. You can optionally enter a description for the return reason.
4. Once done, click on the Create button.

---

## Duplicate a Return Reason

To duplicate a return reason:

1. Go to Settings → Return Reasons.
2. Choose the return reason you want to duplicate from the left section.
3. Click on the <UiIcon lightIcon="https://res.cloudinary.com/dza7lstvk/image/upload/v1667999308/Medusa%20Docs/UI%20Icons/1ordBC6_ssysel.png" darkIcon="https://res.cloudinary.com/dza7lstvk/image/upload/v1667999326/Medusa%20Docs/UI%20Icons/dSwWYBH_stzgoi.png" alt="three dots" /> icon at the top right of the Details section.
4. Click on “Duplicate reason” from the dropdown.
5. In the new window that opens, make changes as necessary for the new return reason.
6. Once done, click on the Create button.

---

## Edit a Return Reason

:::info

A return reason’s value can’t be edited.

:::

To edit a return reason:

1. Go to Settings → Return Reasons.
2. Choose the return reason you want to edit from the left section.
3. In the Details section, make changes to the label or description of the return reason.
4. Once done, click on the Save button.

Commit message:

docs: improved SEO of documentation (#3117)
* docs: added description to documentation pages

* docs: added more descriptions

* docs: finished improving meta description

* docs: added searchbox structured data

* docs: added breadcrumbs structured data

* docs: added how to structured data

* docs: improved 404 page

* docs: added how-to frontmatter option

docs/content/user-guide/settings/return-reasons.mdx, after:

---
sidebar_position: 3
description: 'This user guide explains how to manage return reasons on the Medusa admin. Learn how to add, edit, and remove return reasons.'
addHowToData: true
---

import UiIcon from '@site/src/components/UiIcon';

# Manage Return Reasons

In this document, you’ll learn how to add, edit, and remove return reasons.

## Overview

Return reasons are used when issuing returns or exchanges of orders. When you want to request an exchange or return of an item in an order, you must specify the reason for that return.

Return reasons are custom and are created by merchants. For example, you can create the return reason “damaged”, then use it when you want to request a return for an item in an order because it has been damaged.

:::note

Creating at least one return reason is required before you can work with order returns and exchanges.

:::

---

## Add Return Reason

To add a return reason:

1. Go to Settings → Return Reasons.
2. Click on the “Add reason” button in the Return Reasons section.
3. In the new window:
    1. You are required to enter a value and a label for the return reason. The value is for internal use and must not include spaces. The label is what the customer will see in their order returns or exchanges.
    2. You can optionally enter a description for the return reason.
4. Once done, click on the Create button.

---

## Duplicate a Return Reason

To duplicate a return reason:

1. Go to Settings → Return Reasons.
2. Choose the return reason you want to duplicate from the left section.
3. Click on the <UiIcon lightIcon="https://res.cloudinary.com/dza7lstvk/image/upload/v1667999308/Medusa%20Docs/UI%20Icons/1ordBC6_ssysel.png" darkIcon="https://res.cloudinary.com/dza7lstvk/image/upload/v1667999326/Medusa%20Docs/UI%20Icons/dSwWYBH_stzgoi.png" alt="three dots" /> icon at the top right of the Details section.
4. Click on “Duplicate reason” from the dropdown.
5. In the new window that opens, make changes as necessary for the new return reason.
6. Once done, click on the Create button.

---

## Edit a Return Reason

:::info

A return reason’s value can’t be edited.

:::

To edit a return reason:

1. Go to Settings → Return Reasons.
2. Choose the return reason you want to edit from the left section.
3. In the Details section, make changes to the label or description of the return reason.
4. Once done, click on the Save button.
