docs/content/user-guide/gift-cards/manage.mdx, before:

---
sidebar_position: 2
---

import UiIcon from '@site/src/components/UiIcon';

# Manage a Gift Card

In this document, you’ll learn about managing gift cards, including how to create, edit, and delete them.

## Create Gift Card

:::info

You can only create one gift card per store.

:::

Click on Gift Cards in the sidebar menu. If you don’t have any gift cards you should see a prompt to create your first gift card. 

To create a Gift Card:

1. Click on Create Gift Card.
2. In the new window that opens:
    - Enter a name for the gift card
    - You can optionally enter a description and a thumbnail.
    - Click on Add Denomination. You must at least add one denomination
        - For each denomination, choose the currency and amount.
        - If you want to delete a denomination, you can click the <UiIcon lightIcon="https://res.cloudinary.com/dza7lstvk/image/upload/v1667999273/Medusa%20Docs/UI%20Icons/7hztVhj_mj6mxu.png" darkIcon="https://res.cloudinary.com/dza7lstvk/image/upload/v1667999290/Medusa%20Docs/UI%20Icons/1yp4PNt_vzwnhf.png" alt="trash" /> icon.
3. Once you’re done, click Create & Publish.

:::tip

If you want to add more than one currency value for a denomination, you can do that when you [edit a denomination](#edit-a-denomination).

:::

---

## Edit Gift Card

To edit a Gift Card:

1. Go to the Gift Cards page from the sidebar menu.
2. Next to the main gift card, click on the <UiIcon lightIcon="https://res.cloudinary.com/dza7lstvk/image/upload/v1667999308/Medusa%20Docs/UI%20Icons/1ordBC6_ssysel.png" darkIcon="https://res.cloudinary.com/dza7lstvk/image/upload/v1667999326/Medusa%20Docs/UI%20Icons/dSwWYBH_stzgoi.png" alt="three dots" /> icon.
3. Choose Edit from the dropdown.

This opens a form to edit the gift card details and denominations.

### Edit Gift Card Information

You can edit the name, subtitle, and description of a Gift card.

You can also click on “Show additional details”. Here, you can change the handle of the gift card, tags, and product type.

After making the edits, click Save at the bottom right of the page.

:::info

The handle is the URL used on the storefront to view the Gift Card.

:::

### Add a Denomination

On the Denominations section, click on Add Denomination at the top right of the section.

In the window that opens:

1. Choose the currency of the denomination
2. Enter the amount of the denomination
3. Optionally, you can enter other values for the denominations. This is useful if you want to enter an amount in another currency. To do that:
    - Click on “Add a price” under Other Values.
    - Choose the currency and amount.
    - To delete a price under Other Values, click on the <UiIcon lightIcon="https://res.cloudinary.com/dza7lstvk/image/upload/v1667999273/Medusa%20Docs/UI%20Icons/7hztVhj_mj6mxu.png" darkIcon="https://res.cloudinary.com/dza7lstvk/image/upload/v1667999290/Medusa%20Docs/UI%20Icons/1yp4PNt_vzwnhf.png" alt="trash" /> icon.
4. Once you’re done, click Save.

### Edit a Denomination

To edit a denomination:

1. In the Denominations section, find the denomination you want to edit.
2. Click on the <UiIcon lightIcon="https://res.cloudinary.com/dza7lstvk/image/upload/v1667999308/Medusa%20Docs/UI%20Icons/1ordBC6_ssysel.png" darkIcon="https://res.cloudinary.com/dza7lstvk/image/upload/v1667999326/Medusa%20Docs/UI%20Icons/dSwWYBH_stzgoi.png" alt="three dots" /> icon in the same row as the denomination you want to edit.
3. Click on Edit Denomination from the dropdown.
4. This opens a new window to edit the denomination. You can then:
    - Edit the currency or amount of existing prices of the denomination.
    - Add prices for other currencies by clicking “Add a price”
    - Delete prices by clicking the <UiIcon lightIcon="https://res.cloudinary.com/dza7lstvk/image/upload/v1667999273/Medusa%20Docs/UI%20Icons/7hztVhj_mj6mxu.png" darkIcon="https://res.cloudinary.com/dza7lstvk/image/upload/v1667999290/Medusa%20Docs/UI%20Icons/1yp4PNt_vzwnhf.png" alt="trash" /> icon.
5. Once you’re done, click Save.

### Delete a Denomination

:::warning

If you delete a denomination, customers won’t be able to find it in the storefront, purchase it, or use it.

:::

To delete a denomination:

1. In the Denominations section, find the denomination you want to edit.
2. Click on the <UiIcon lightIcon="https://res.cloudinary.com/dza7lstvk/image/upload/v1667999308/Medusa%20Docs/UI%20Icons/1ordBC6_ssysel.png" darkIcon="https://res.cloudinary.com/dza7lstvk/image/upload/v1667999326/Medusa%20Docs/UI%20Icons/dSwWYBH_stzgoi.png" alt="three dots" /> icon in the same row as the denomination you want to delete.
3. Click on Delete Denomination from the dropdown.
4. Confirm deleting the denomination by clicking the “Yes, delete” button in the pop-up.

### Add Images

:::info

You can add up to ten images for a Gift Card.

:::

To add images to the Gift Card:

1. Go to the Images section.
2. Either drag and drop your image to the dashed box or click on the box and choose the image you want to add.
3. Click Save at the bottom right of the page.

:::note

If you face any errors or difficulties while uploading an image, please contact your technical support team as this could be an issue in the storage integration used.

:::

### Change Thumbnail Image

:::info

You must have more than one image for a gift card to change the thumbnail image.

:::

To change the thumbnail image:

1. Go to the Images section.
2. Check the radio button under the Thumbnail column for the image you want to make the thumbnail.
3. Click Save at the bottom right of the page.

### Delete Gift Card Image

:::caution

If you delete an image, you won’t be able to restore it.

:::

To delete a gift card image:

1. Go to the Images section.
2. Click on the <UiIcon lightIcon="https://res.cloudinary.com/dza7lstvk/image/upload/v1667999273/Medusa%20Docs/UI%20Icons/7hztVhj_mj6mxu.png" darkIcon="https://res.cloudinary.com/dza7lstvk/image/upload/v1667999290/Medusa%20Docs/UI%20Icons/1yp4PNt_vzwnhf.png" alt="trash" /> icon at the right of the image you want to delete.
3. Click Save at the bottom right of the page.

---

## Unpublish Gift Card

:::caution

Unpublishing a gift card prevents customers from seeing the gift card in the storefront, purchasing it, or using it.

:::

### On Gift Cards Page

1. Click on the <UiIcon lightIcon="https://res.cloudinary.com/dza7lstvk/image/upload/v1667999308/Medusa%20Docs/UI%20Icons/1ordBC6_ssysel.png" darkIcon="https://res.cloudinary.com/dza7lstvk/image/upload/v1667999326/Medusa%20Docs/UI%20Icons/dSwWYBH_stzgoi.png" alt="three dots" /> icon at the top right of the main gift card.
2. Choose Unpublish.

### On Edit Gift Card Page

1. Click on the <UiIcon lightIcon="https://res.cloudinary.com/dza7lstvk/image/upload/v1667999308/Medusa%20Docs/UI%20Icons/1ordBC6_ssysel.png" darkIcon="https://res.cloudinary.com/dza7lstvk/image/upload/v1667999326/Medusa%20Docs/UI%20Icons/dSwWYBH_stzgoi.png" alt="three dots" /> icon at the top right of the Product Information section.
2. Choose Unpublish Gift Card from the dropdown.

---

## Publish Gift Card

:::note

Publishing a gift card allows customers to see the gift card on the storefront, purchase it, and use it.

:::

### On Gift Cards Page

1. Click on the <UiIcon lightIcon="https://res.cloudinary.com/dza7lstvk/image/upload/v1667999308/Medusa%20Docs/UI%20Icons/1ordBC6_ssysel.png" darkIcon="https://res.cloudinary.com/dza7lstvk/image/upload/v1667999326/Medusa%20Docs/UI%20Icons/dSwWYBH_stzgoi.png" alt="three dots" /> icon at the top right of the main gift card.
2. Choose Publish.

### On Edit Gift Card Page

1. Click on the <UiIcon lightIcon="https://res.cloudinary.com/dza7lstvk/image/upload/v1667999308/Medusa%20Docs/UI%20Icons/1ordBC6_ssysel.png" darkIcon="https://res.cloudinary.com/dza7lstvk/image/upload/v1667999326/Medusa%20Docs/UI%20Icons/dSwWYBH_stzgoi.png" alt="three dots" /> icon at the top right of the Product Information section.
2. Choose Publish Gift Card from the dropdown.

---

## Delete Gift Card

:::warning

If you delete a gift card, you can’t restore it or its settings. Customers also can’t use the gift card if they had previously purchased it.

:::

To delete a gift card:

1. Go to the Gift Cards page from the sidebar menu.
2. Click on the <UiIcon lightIcon="https://res.cloudinary.com/dza7lstvk/image/upload/v1667999308/Medusa%20Docs/UI%20Icons/1ordBC6_ssysel.png" darkIcon="https://res.cloudinary.com/dza7lstvk/image/upload/v1667999326/Medusa%20Docs/UI%20Icons/dSwWYBH_stzgoi.png" alt="three dots" /> icon next to the main gift card.
3. Choose Delete from the dropdown.
4. Confirm deleting the gift card by clicking the “Yes, delete” button in the pop-up.

Commit message:

docs: improved SEO of documentation (#3117)
* docs: added description to documentation pages

* docs: added more descriptions

* docs: finished improving meta description

* docs: added searchbox structured data

* docs: added breadcrumbs structured data

* docs: added how to structured data

* docs: improved 404 page

* docs: added how-to frontmatter option

docs/content/user-guide/gift-cards/manage.mdx, after:

---
sidebar_position: 2
description: 'This user guide explains how to manage the main gift card on the Medusa admin. Learn how to create, edit, and delete a gift card.'
addHowToData: true
---

import UiIcon from '@site/src/components/UiIcon';

# Manage a Gift Card

In this document, you’ll learn about managing gift cards, including how to create, edit, and delete them.

## Create Gift Card

:::info

You can only create one gift card per store.

:::

Click on Gift Cards in the sidebar menu. If you don’t have any gift cards you should see a prompt to create your first gift card. 

To create a Gift Card:

1. Click on Create Gift Card.
2. In the new window that opens:
    - Enter a name for the gift card
    - You can optionally enter a description and a thumbnail.
    - Click on Add Denomination. You must at least add one denomination
        - For each denomination, choose the currency and amount.
        - If you want to delete a denomination, you can click the <UiIcon lightIcon="https://res.cloudinary.com/dza7lstvk/image/upload/v1667999273/Medusa%20Docs/UI%20Icons/7hztVhj_mj6mxu.png" darkIcon="https://res.cloudinary.com/dza7lstvk/image/upload/v1667999290/Medusa%20Docs/UI%20Icons/1yp4PNt_vzwnhf.png" alt="trash" /> icon.
3. Once you’re done, click Create & Publish.

:::tip

If you want to add more than one currency value for a denomination, you can do that when you [edit a denomination](#edit-a-denomination).

:::

---

## Edit Gift Card

To edit a Gift Card:

1. Go to the Gift Cards page from the sidebar menu.
2. Next to the main gift card, click on the <UiIcon lightIcon="https://res.cloudinary.com/dza7lstvk/image/upload/v1667999308/Medusa%20Docs/UI%20Icons/1ordBC6_ssysel.png" darkIcon="https://res.cloudinary.com/dza7lstvk/image/upload/v1667999326/Medusa%20Docs/UI%20Icons/dSwWYBH_stzgoi.png" alt="three dots" /> icon.
3. Choose Edit from the dropdown.

This opens a form to edit the gift card details and denominations.

### Edit Gift Card Information

You can edit the name, subtitle, and description of a Gift card.

You can also click on “Show additional details”. Here, you can change the handle of the gift card, tags, and product type.

After making the edits, click Save at the bottom right of the page.

:::info

The handle is the URL used on the storefront to view the Gift Card.

:::

### Add a Denomination

On the Denominations section, click on Add Denomination at the top right of the section.

In the window that opens:

1. Choose the currency of the denomination
2. Enter the amount of the denomination
3. Optionally, you can enter other values for the denominations. This is useful if you want to enter an amount in another currency. To do that:
    - Click on “Add a price” under Other Values.
    - Choose the currency and amount.
    - To delete a price under Other Values, click on the <UiIcon lightIcon="https://res.cloudinary.com/dza7lstvk/image/upload/v1667999273/Medusa%20Docs/UI%20Icons/7hztVhj_mj6mxu.png" darkIcon="https://res.cloudinary.com/dza7lstvk/image/upload/v1667999290/Medusa%20Docs/UI%20Icons/1yp4PNt_vzwnhf.png" alt="trash" /> icon.
4. Once you’re done, click Save.

### Edit a Denomination

To edit a denomination:

1. In the Denominations section, find the denomination you want to edit.
2. Click on the <UiIcon lightIcon="https://res.cloudinary.com/dza7lstvk/image/upload/v1667999308/Medusa%20Docs/UI%20Icons/1ordBC6_ssysel.png" darkIcon="https://res.cloudinary.com/dza7lstvk/image/upload/v1667999326/Medusa%20Docs/UI%20Icons/dSwWYBH_stzgoi.png" alt="three dots" /> icon in the same row as the denomination you want to edit.
3. Click on Edit Denomination from the dropdown.
4. This opens a new window to edit the denomination. You can then:
    - Edit the currency or amount of existing prices of the denomination.
    - Add prices for other currencies by clicking “Add a price”
    - Delete prices by clicking the <UiIcon lightIcon="https://res.cloudinary.com/dza7lstvk/image/upload/v1667999273/Medusa%20Docs/UI%20Icons/7hztVhj_mj6mxu.png" darkIcon="https://res.cloudinary.com/dza7lstvk/image/upload/v1667999290/Medusa%20Docs/UI%20Icons/1yp4PNt_vzwnhf.png" alt="trash" /> icon.
5. Once you’re done, click Save.

### Delete a Denomination

:::warning

If you delete a denomination, customers won’t be able to find it in the storefront, purchase it, or use it.

:::

To delete a denomination:

1. In the Denominations section, find the denomination you want to edit.
2. Click on the <UiIcon lightIcon="https://res.cloudinary.com/dza7lstvk/image/upload/v1667999308/Medusa%20Docs/UI%20Icons/1ordBC6_ssysel.png" darkIcon="https://res.cloudinary.com/dza7lstvk/image/upload/v1667999326/Medusa%20Docs/UI%20Icons/dSwWYBH_stzgoi.png" alt="three dots" /> icon in the same row as the denomination you want to delete.
3. Click on Delete Denomination from the dropdown.
4. Confirm deleting the denomination by clicking the “Yes, delete” button in the pop-up.

### Add Images

:::info

You can add up to ten images for a Gift Card.

:::

To add images to the Gift Card:

1. Go to the Images section.
2. Either drag and drop your image to the dashed box or click on the box and choose the image you want to add.
3. Click Save at the bottom right of the page.

:::note

If you face any errors or difficulties while uploading an image, please contact your technical support team as this could be an issue in the storage integration used.

:::

### Change Thumbnail Image

:::info

You must have more than one image for a gift card to change the thumbnail image.

:::

To change the thumbnail image:

1. Go to the Images section.
2. Check the radio button under the Thumbnail column for the image you want to make the thumbnail.
3. Click Save at the bottom right of the page.

### Delete Gift Card Image

:::caution

If you delete an image, you won’t be able to restore it.

:::

To delete a gift card image:

1. Go to the Images section.
2. Click on the <UiIcon lightIcon="https://res.cloudinary.com/dza7lstvk/image/upload/v1667999273/Medusa%20Docs/UI%20Icons/7hztVhj_mj6mxu.png" darkIcon="https://res.cloudinary.com/dza7lstvk/image/upload/v1667999290/Medusa%20Docs/UI%20Icons/1yp4PNt_vzwnhf.png" alt="trash" /> icon at the right of the image you want to delete.
3. Click Save at the bottom right of the page.

---

## Unpublish Gift Card

:::caution

Unpublishing a gift card prevents customers from seeing the gift card in the storefront, purchasing it, or using it.

:::

### On Gift Cards Page

1. Click on the <UiIcon lightIcon="https://res.cloudinary.com/dza7lstvk/image/upload/v1667999308/Medusa%20Docs/UI%20Icons/1ordBC6_ssysel.png" darkIcon="https://res.cloudinary.com/dza7lstvk/image/upload/v1667999326/Medusa%20Docs/UI%20Icons/dSwWYBH_stzgoi.png" alt="three dots" /> icon at the top right of the main gift card.
2. Choose Unpublish.

### On Edit Gift Card Page

1. Click on the <UiIcon lightIcon="https://res.cloudinary.com/dza7lstvk/image/upload/v1667999308/Medusa%20Docs/UI%20Icons/1ordBC6_ssysel.png" darkIcon="https://res.cloudinary.com/dza7lstvk/image/upload/v1667999326/Medusa%20Docs/UI%20Icons/dSwWYBH_stzgoi.png" alt="three dots" /> icon at the top right of the Product Information section.
2. Choose Unpublish Gift Card from the dropdown.

---

## Publish Gift Card

:::note

Publishing a gift card allows customers to see the gift card on the storefront, purchase it, and use it.

:::

### On Gift Cards Page

1. Click on the <UiIcon lightIcon="https://res.cloudinary.com/dza7lstvk/image/upload/v1667999308/Medusa%20Docs/UI%20Icons/1ordBC6_ssysel.png" darkIcon="https://res.cloudinary.com/dza7lstvk/image/upload/v1667999326/Medusa%20Docs/UI%20Icons/dSwWYBH_stzgoi.png" alt="three dots" /> icon at the top right of the main gift card.
2. Choose Publish.

### On Edit Gift Card Page

1. Click on the <UiIcon lightIcon="https://res.cloudinary.com/dza7lstvk/image/upload/v1667999308/Medusa%20Docs/UI%20Icons/1ordBC6_ssysel.png" darkIcon="https://res.cloudinary.com/dza7lstvk/image/upload/v1667999326/Medusa%20Docs/UI%20Icons/dSwWYBH_stzgoi.png" alt="three dots" /> icon at the top right of the Product Information section.
2. Choose Publish Gift Card from the dropdown.

---

## Delete Gift Card

:::warning

If you delete a gift card, you can’t restore it or its settings. Customers also can’t use the gift card if they had previously purchased it.

:::

To delete a gift card:

1. Go to the Gift Cards page from the sidebar menu.
2. Click on the <UiIcon lightIcon="https://res.cloudinary.com/dza7lstvk/image/upload/v1667999308/Medusa%20Docs/UI%20Icons/1ordBC6_ssysel.png" darkIcon="https://res.cloudinary.com/dza7lstvk/image/upload/v1667999326/Medusa%20Docs/UI%20Icons/dSwWYBH_stzgoi.png" alt="three dots" /> icon next to the main gift card.
3. Choose Delete from the dropdown.
4. Confirm deleting the gift card by clicking the “Yes, delete” button in the pop-up.
