docs/content/user-guide/regions/index.md, before:

# Regions Overview

In this document, you’ll get an overview of regions and learn about their importance in your ecommerce store

## Overview

Regions are essential to your ecommerce store. They allow you to specify available currencies, payment providers, fulfillment providers, tax rates, and more for different regions.

Regions represent different countries that your ecommerce store serves customers in. You can combine more than one country in the same region and give them the same settings, or you can create a different region for each country and add settings specific to each of them.

### Currencies in Regions

Each region uses one currency. Having more than one region with each having different currencies allows you to set prices and amounts throughout your ecommerce store for each currency. For example, you can specify prices for a product for each currency you support.

![An example of prices for different currencies](https://i.imgur.com/XkLZajl.png)

### How Customers Use Regions

When a customer browses your storefront, they can choose the region based on their location. Then, different pricing, shipping providers, payment providers, and taxes will be available and applied based on the chosen region.

For example, if you have Stripe enabled as a payment provider in a region created for the United States, but have it disabled in a region created for European countries, only customers in the United States region can use Stripe for payment on checkout.

## What More Can you Do with Regions?

In the Medusa admin, you can create and manage regions and their settings, such as available shipping options. You can learn more in [this guide](./manage.mdx).

Commit message:

docs: rearrange user guide (#2127)
* added lists guide

* restructure existing guides

* added new pages after restructuring

* added blank pages + rearranged sidebar

docs/content/user-guide/regions/index.md, after:

---
sidebar_position: 1
---

# Regions Overview

In this document, you’ll get an overview of regions and learn about their importance in your ecommerce store.

## Overview

Regions are essential to your ecommerce store. They allow you to specify available currencies, payment providers, fulfillment providers, tax rates, and more for different regions.

Regions represent different countries that your ecommerce store serves customers in. You can combine more than one country in the same region and give them the same settings, or you can create a different region for each country and add settings specific to each of them.

---

## Currencies in Regions

Each region uses one currency. Having more than one region with each having different currencies allows you to set prices and amounts throughout your ecommerce store for each currency. For example, you can specify prices for a product for each currency you support.

---

## How Customers Use Regions

When a customer browses your storefront, they can choose the region based on their location. Then, different pricing, shipping providers, payment providers, and taxes will be available and applied based on the chosen region.

For example, if you have Stripe enabled as a payment provider in a region created for the United States, but have it disabled in a region created for European countries, only customers in the United States region can use Stripe for payment on checkout.

---

## Learn More About Regions

- [Manage Regions](./manage.mdx)
- [Manage Payment and Fulfillment Providers](./providers.md)
- [Manage Shipping Options in a Region](./shipping-options.md)
