docs/content/user-guide/regions/providers.mdx, before:

---
sidebar_position: 3
sidebar_label: Manage Providers
---

import UiIcon from '@site/src/components/UiIcon';

# Manage Payment and Fulfillment Providers

In this document, you’ll learn how to manage a region’s payment and fulfillment providers in your Medusa Admin.

## Overview

You can choose the payment and fulfillment providers available in each region. This allows you to provide customers in specific regions the providers that are available in their country or region.

When a payment or fulfillment provider is added to a region, it means a customer is able to select that payment or fulfillment provider during checkout to complete their purchase.

---

## Manage Payment Providers

To add or remove a payment provider in a region:

1. Go to Settings → Regions.
2. Select a region to edit.
3. Click on the <UiIcon lightIcon="https://res.cloudinary.com/dza7lstvk/image/upload/v1667999308/Medusa%20Docs/UI%20Icons/1ordBC6_ssysel.png" darkIcon="https://res.cloudinary.com/dza7lstvk/image/upload/v1667999326/Medusa%20Docs/UI%20Icons/dSwWYBH_stzgoi.png" alt="three dots" /> icon at the top right of the first section on the right.
4. Click on Edit Region Details from the dropdown.
5. Under the providers section, select the payment providers you want to add to the region.
6. Unselect the payment providers you want to remove from the region.
7. Click Save.

---

## Manage Fulfillment Providers

To add or remove a fulfillment provider in a region:

1. Go to Settings → Regions.
2. Select a region to edit.
3. Click on the <UiIcon lightIcon="https://res.cloudinary.com/dza7lstvk/image/upload/v1667999308/Medusa%20Docs/UI%20Icons/1ordBC6_ssysel.png" darkIcon="https://res.cloudinary.com/dza7lstvk/image/upload/v1667999326/Medusa%20Docs/UI%20Icons/dSwWYBH_stzgoi.png" alt="three dots" /> icon at the top right of the first section on the right.
4. Click on Edit Region Details from the dropdown.
5. Under the providers section, select the fulfillment providers you want to add to the region.
6. Unselect the fulfillment providers you want to remove from the region.
7. Click Save.

Commit message:

docs: improved SEO of documentation (#3117)
* docs: added description to documentation pages

* docs: added more descriptions

* docs: finished improving meta description

* docs: added searchbox structured data

* docs: added breadcrumbs structured data

* docs: added how to structured data

* docs: improved 404 page

* docs: added how-to frontmatter option

docs/content/user-guide/regions/providers.mdx, after:

---
sidebar_position: 3
sidebar_label: Manage Providers
description: 'This user guide explains how to manage payment and fulfillment providers in a region on the Medusa admin.'
addHowToData: true
---

import UiIcon from '@site/src/components/UiIcon';

# Manage Payment and Fulfillment Providers in a Region

In this document, you’ll learn how to manage a region’s payment and fulfillment providers in your Medusa Admin.

## Overview

You can choose the payment and fulfillment providers available in each region. This allows you to provide customers in specific regions the providers that are available in their country or region.

When a payment or fulfillment provider is added to a region, it means a customer is able to select that payment or fulfillment provider during checkout to complete their purchase.

---

## Manage Payment Providers

To add or remove a payment provider in a region:

1. Go to Settings → Regions.
2. Select a region to edit.
3. Click on the <UiIcon lightIcon="https://res.cloudinary.com/dza7lstvk/image/upload/v1667999308/Medusa%20Docs/UI%20Icons/1ordBC6_ssysel.png" darkIcon="https://res.cloudinary.com/dza7lstvk/image/upload/v1667999326/Medusa%20Docs/UI%20Icons/dSwWYBH_stzgoi.png" alt="three dots" /> icon at the top right of the first section on the right.
4. Click on Edit Region Details from the dropdown.
5. Under the providers section, select the payment providers you want to add to the region.
6. Unselect the payment providers you want to remove from the region.
7. Click Save.

---

## Manage Fulfillment Providers

To add or remove a fulfillment provider in a region:

1. Go to Settings → Regions.
2. Select a region to edit.
3. Click on the <UiIcon lightIcon="https://res.cloudinary.com/dza7lstvk/image/upload/v1667999308/Medusa%20Docs/UI%20Icons/1ordBC6_ssysel.png" darkIcon="https://res.cloudinary.com/dza7lstvk/image/upload/v1667999326/Medusa%20Docs/UI%20Icons/dSwWYBH_stzgoi.png" alt="three dots" /> icon at the top right of the first section on the right.
4. Click on Edit Region Details from the dropdown.
5. Under the providers section, select the fulfillment providers you want to add to the region.
6. Unselect the fulfillment providers you want to remove from the region.
7. Click Save.
