docs/content/user-guide/regions/shipping-options.mdx, before:

---
sidebar_position: 4
---

import UiIcon from '@site/src/components/UiIcon';

# Manage Shipping Options

In this document, you’ll learn how to manage a region’s shipping options in your Medusa Admin.

## Types of Shipping Options

There are two types of shipping options in a region:

1. Shipping Options are used when a customer places an order or when an admin creates a draft order.
2. Return Shipping Options are used when a customer requests a return or swap for their order, or when an admin registers an exchange, a claim, or a return for an order.

A shipping option can’t be used for both cases. In a region, you can create an unlimited amount of shipping options and return shipping options.

## Manage Shipping Options in a Region

### Add Shipping Option to a Region

To add a shipping option:

1. Go to Settings → Regions.
2. Select a region to edit.
3. Scroll down to the Shipping Options section on the right side.
4. Click on the Add Option button.
5. A new window will open with a form with the following fields:
    - **Title (Required):** The name of the shipping option. The customer will see this name on the storefront if the “Show on Website” field is checked.
    - **Price (Required):** The price of the shipping option.
    - **Shipping Profile (Required):** The shipping profile this option belongs to.
    - **Fulfillment Method (Required):** the fulfillment provider that will handle fulfilling this shipping option.
    - **Visible is Store:** Whether or not this option should be available on the website. This is useful if you want to create a shipping option only for use on the Medusa Admin (for example, to create draft orders).
    - **Requirements:** You can use this to specify a condition for when this shipping option should be available. The first field indicates the minimum cart subtotal, and the second field indicates the maximum cart subtotal. For example, you can fill in the first field “100” to only allow using this shipping option if the cart’s subtotal is at least $100.
6. Once you’re done, click Save.

### Edit a Shipping Option

To edit a shipping option:

1. Go to Settings → Regions.
2. Select a region to edit.
3. Scroll down to the Shipping Options section on the right side.
4. Find the shipping option you want to edit and click on the three dots icon at its right.
5. Click on Edit in the dropdown.
6. A new window will open with the fields that you can edit. You can edit all of the fields you chose while adding the shipping option except for the Shipping Profile and Fulfillment Method.
7. Once you’re done, click the Save and close button.

### Delete a Shipping Option

:::warning

If you delete a shipping option, you can’t restore it or its data, customers can’t use it during checkout, and admins can’t use it for draft orders.

:::

To delete a shipping option:

1. Go to Settings → Regions.
2. Select a region to edit.
3. Scroll down to the Shipping Options section on the right side.
4. Find the shipping option you want to edit and click on the <UiIcon lightIcon="https://res.cloudinary.com/dza7lstvk/image/upload/v1667999308/Medusa%20Docs/UI%20Icons/1ordBC6_ssysel.png" darkIcon="https://res.cloudinary.com/dza7lstvk/image/upload/v1667999326/Medusa%20Docs/UI%20Icons/dSwWYBH_stzgoi.png" alt="three dots" /> icon at its right.
5. Click on Delete in the dropdown.

---

## Manage Return Shipping Options in a Region

### Add Return Shipping Option to a Region

To add a return shipping option:

1. Go to Settings → Regions.
2. Select a region to edit.
3. Scroll down to the Return Shipping Options section on the right side.
4. Click on the Add Option button.
5. A new window will open with a form with the following fields:
    - **Title (Required):** The name of the shipping option. The customer will see this name on the storefront if the “Show on Website” field is checked.
    - **Price (Required):** The price of the shipping option.
    - **Shipping Profile (Required):** The shipping profile this option belongs to.
    - **Fulfillment Method (Required):** the fulfillment provider that will handle fulfilling this shipping option.
    - **Visible is Store:** Whether or not this option should be available on the website. This is useful if you want to create a shipping option only for use on the Medusa Admin (for example, to create draft orders).
    - **Requirements:** You can use this to specify a condition for when this shipping option should be available. The first field indicates the minimum cart subtotal, and the second field indicates the maximum cart subtotal. For example, you can fill in the first field “100” to only allow using this shipping option if the cart’s subtotal is at least $100.
6. Once you’re done, click the Save and close button.

### Edit a Return Shipping Option

To edit a return shipping option:

1. Go to Settings → Regions.
2. Select a region to edit.
3. Scroll down to the Return Shipping Options section on the right side.
4. Find the shipping option you want to edit and click on the <UiIcon lightIcon="https://res.cloudinary.com/dza7lstvk/image/upload/v1667999308/Medusa%20Docs/UI%20Icons/1ordBC6_ssysel.png" darkIcon="https://res.cloudinary.com/dza7lstvk/image/upload/v1667999326/Medusa%20Docs/UI%20Icons/dSwWYBH_stzgoi.png" alt="three dots" /> icon at its right.
5. Click on Edit in the dropdown.
6. A new window will open with the fields that you can edit. You can edit all of the fields you chose while adding the shipping option except for the Shipping Profile and Fulfillment Method.
7. Once you’re done, click the Save and close button.

### Delete a Return Shipping Option

:::warning

If you delete a return shipping option, you can’t restore it or its data, customers can’t use it when they request a return or an exchange, and admins can’t use it when requesting a return for an order or registering an exchange or claim for an order.

:::

To delete a return shipping option:

1. Go to Settings → Regions.
2. Select a region to edit.
3. Scroll down to the Return Shipping Options section on the right side.
4. Find the shipping option you want to edit and click on the <UiIcon lightIcon="https://res.cloudinary.com/dza7lstvk/image/upload/v1667999308/Medusa%20Docs/UI%20Icons/1ordBC6_ssysel.png" darkIcon="https://res.cloudinary.com/dza7lstvk/image/upload/v1667999326/Medusa%20Docs/UI%20Icons/dSwWYBH_stzgoi.png" alt="three dots" /> icon at its right.
5. Click on Delete in the dropdown.

Commit message:

docs: improved SEO of documentation (#3117)
* docs: added description to documentation pages

* docs: added more descriptions

* docs: finished improving meta description

* docs: added searchbox structured data

* docs: added breadcrumbs structured data

* docs: added how to structured data

* docs: improved 404 page

* docs: added how-to frontmatter option

docs/content/user-guide/regions/shipping-options.mdx, after:

---
sidebar_position: 4
sidebar_label: Manage Shipping Options
description: 'This user guide explains how to manage shipping options in a region on the Medusa admin.'
addHowToData: true
---

import UiIcon from '@site/src/components/UiIcon';

# Manage Shipping Options in a Region

In this document, you’ll learn how to manage a region’s shipping options in your Medusa Admin.

## Types of Shipping Options

There are two types of shipping options in a region:

1. Shipping Options are used when a customer places an order or when an admin creates a draft order.
2. Return Shipping Options are used when a customer requests a return or swap for their order, or when an admin registers an exchange, a claim, or a return for an order.

A shipping option can’t be used for both cases. In a region, you can create an unlimited amount of shipping options and return shipping options.

## Manage Shipping Options in a Region

### Add Shipping Option to a Region

To add a shipping option:

1. Go to Settings → Regions.
2. Select a region to edit.
3. Scroll down to the Shipping Options section on the right side.
4. Click on the Add Option button.
5. A new window will open with a form with the following fields:
    - **Title (Required):** The name of the shipping option. The customer will see this name on the storefront if the “Show on Website” field is checked.
    - **Price (Required):** The price of the shipping option.
    - **Shipping Profile (Required):** The shipping profile this option belongs to.
    - **Fulfillment Method (Required):** the fulfillment provider that will handle fulfilling this shipping option.
    - **Visible is Store:** Whether or not this option should be available on the website. This is useful if you want to create a shipping option only for use on the Medusa Admin (for example, to create draft orders).
    - **Requirements:** You can use this to specify a condition for when this shipping option should be available. The first field indicates the minimum cart subtotal, and the second field indicates the maximum cart subtotal. For example, you can fill in the first field “100” to only allow using this shipping option if the cart’s subtotal is at least $100.
6. Once you’re done, click Save.

### Edit a Shipping Option

To edit a shipping option:

1. Go to Settings → Regions.
2. Select a region to edit.
3. Scroll down to the Shipping Options section on the right side.
4. Find the shipping option you want to edit and click on the three dots icon at its right.
5. Click on Edit in the dropdown.
6. A new window will open with the fields that you can edit. You can edit all of the fields you chose while adding the shipping option except for the Shipping Profile and Fulfillment Method.
7. Once you’re done, click the Save and close button.

### Delete a Shipping Option

:::warning

If you delete a shipping option, you can’t restore it or its data, customers can’t use it during checkout, and admins can’t use it for draft orders.

:::

To delete a shipping option:

1. Go to Settings → Regions.
2. Select a region to edit.
3. Scroll down to the Shipping Options section on the right side.
4. Find the shipping option you want to edit and click on the <UiIcon lightIcon="https://res.cloudinary.com/dza7lstvk/image/upload/v1667999308/Medusa%20Docs/UI%20Icons/1ordBC6_ssysel.png" darkIcon="https://res.cloudinary.com/dza7lstvk/image/upload/v1667999326/Medusa%20Docs/UI%20Icons/dSwWYBH_stzgoi.png" alt="three dots" /> icon at its right.
5. Click on Delete in the dropdown.

---

## Manage Return Shipping Options in a Region

### Add Return Shipping Option to a Region

To add a return shipping option:

1. Go to Settings → Regions.
2. Select a region to edit.
3. Scroll down to the Return Shipping Options section on the right side.
4. Click on the Add Option button.
5. A new window will open with a form with the following fields:
    - **Title (Required):** The name of the shipping option. The customer will see this name on the storefront if the “Show on Website” field is checked.
    - **Price (Required):** The price of the shipping option.
    - **Shipping Profile (Required):** The shipping profile this option belongs to.
    - **Fulfillment Method (Required):** the fulfillment provider that will handle fulfilling this shipping option.
    - **Visible is Store:** Whether or not this option should be available on the website. This is useful if you want to create a shipping option only for use on the Medusa Admin (for example, to create draft orders).
    - **Requirements:** You can use this to specify a condition for when this shipping option should be available. The first field indicates the minimum cart subtotal, and the second field indicates the maximum cart subtotal. For example, you can fill in the first field “100” to only allow using this shipping option if the cart’s subtotal is at least $100.
6. Once you’re done, click the Save and close button.

### Edit a Return Shipping Option

To edit a return shipping option:

1. Go to Settings → Regions.
2. Select a region to edit.
3. Scroll down to the Return Shipping Options section on the right side.
4. Find the shipping option you want to edit and click on the <UiIcon lightIcon="https://res.cloudinary.com/dza7lstvk/image/upload/v1667999308/Medusa%20Docs/UI%20Icons/1ordBC6_ssysel.png" darkIcon="https://res.cloudinary.com/dza7lstvk/image/upload/v1667999326/Medusa%20Docs/UI%20Icons/dSwWYBH_stzgoi.png" alt="three dots" /> icon at its right.
5. Click on Edit in the dropdown.
6. A new window will open with the fields that you can edit. You can edit all of the fields you chose while adding the shipping option except for the Shipping Profile and Fulfillment Method.
7. Once you’re done, click the Save and close button.

### Delete a Return Shipping Option

:::warning

If you delete a return shipping option, you can’t restore it or its data, customers can’t use it when they request a return or an exchange, and admins can’t use it when requesting a return for an order or registering an exchange or claim for an order.

:::

To delete a return shipping option:

1. Go to Settings → Regions.
2. Select a region to edit.
3. Scroll down to the Return Shipping Options section on the right side.
4. Find the shipping option you want to edit and click on the <UiIcon lightIcon="https://res.cloudinary.com/dza7lstvk/image/upload/v1667999308/Medusa%20Docs/UI%20Icons/1ordBC6_ssysel.png" darkIcon="https://res.cloudinary.com/dza7lstvk/image/upload/v1667999326/Medusa%20Docs/UI%20Icons/dSwWYBH_stzgoi.png" alt="three dots" /> icon at its right.
5. Click on Delete in the dropdown.
